amit choudhary: Is the… Yeah.
amit choudhary: So, we will communicate in English, okay? Let's speak comfortably, so that the transcription works well.
amit choudhary: Structure your thoughts.
amit choudhary: There is no blame game going on.
amit choudhary: But we have to fix it, and we have to fix it once and for all.
amit choudhary: and, so first thing would be to, clearly understand the process.
amit choudhary: Right, if anybody is still there who doesn't understand the process clearly, the first, the high-level process, what happens?
amit choudhary: Right? Because this is the Mac… framework
amit choudhary: is which we have the goal to implement it, ultimately, in our product, but till that time, we need to ensure that we are holding this, and customer doesn't lose, confidence on this entire concept. We make it work, okay? So, first, the process.
amit choudhary: How it is expected to work as on today.
amit choudhary: Right? What are the components? Data flow? Where does it start? Where does it come from? What are the, things? Then, what are the artifacts which get created, right? Which all part? What are the steps? Manual, automated, right now, we don't discuss. We discuss every step, what happens.
amit choudhary: Who does what?
amit choudhary: then, then that… maybe some sheets somewhere, it gets picked up, maybe, then there is database, then there's a bunch of things happening, that ETL refresh is happening, then from there, that our analytics DB, from there, the… there are SQL queries written, which are written in Metabase, which produces some
amit choudhary: Charts some tables.
amit choudhary: Which we are controlling via parameter, which is configured in our
amit choudhary: product database. That's why it is exposed via the platform, and customer can log in and kind of consume those reports.
amit choudhary: So there are numbers coming in. There is a…
amit choudhary: Frequency of refresh of those reports.
amit choudhary: Right? And, based on that, the customer is informed, and customer looks at it, and then customer, customer consumes it happily.
amit choudhary: So, standard process, but then, what are the glitches happening? Where? Where are the loopholes? Where are the issues happening? What are the kind of issues happening?
amit choudhary: Are those issues known? If this was known, if you have tested it, then how did it leak, and all those things. So, we'll take it step by step. So, Sunil, first start with the as-is.
Sunil Kumar: Yes, Amitzel. So, there are a couple of things.
amit choudhary: Mansi, feel free to augment Sunil, you'll definitely bring a lot of…
amit choudhary: Points, at this point, at least.
Enqurious 4: Sure, sir.
Sunil Kumar: So, yep.
Sunil Kumar: So, guys, from past couple of days, we are testing the dashboard.
Sunil Kumar: So, whatever the MAC level and skills code level you are sharing, we are…
Sunil Kumar: Populating it on the dashboard. So, few things I have found it on the dashboard that look a little bit ambiguous.
Sunil Kumar: Especially with skills code.
Sunil Kumar: So there are a few other issues also. I will highlight it, but let's focus on Skills 4. Let me go ahead and share my screen.
Sunil Kumar: And let me navigate to the dashboard.
Sunil Kumar: Yep.
Sunil Kumar: I hope my screen is visible.
Sunil Kumar: Yes, sir.
Sayli: So annoying.
Enqurious 4: Yes.
Sunil Kumar: So this is the dashboard, guys, and this dashboard, access we are sharing with the client.
Sunil Kumar: And, there's a learner dashboard, there's a control dashboard.
Sunil Kumar: So, I will show you a couple of, reports.
Sunil Kumar: And I want to understand, because this report seems to be a little bit ambiguous.
Sunil Kumar: So let me, fetch this report, Girish.
Sunil Kumar: Girish report. Let me copy this.
Sunil Kumar: Girish. Girish Kumal.
Sunil Kumar: So let me filter out this.
Sunil Kumar: So this Grish Kumar is from… data engineer.
Sunil Kumar: booming?
Sunil Kumar: Now, if you see this skill mapping, this particular report.
Sunil Kumar: This report seems to be a little bit ambiguous. How?
Sunil Kumar: If I talk about the Spark score, so this person, this participant has scored 81, got 81 score, but still, he's not ready.
Sunil Kumar: is not ready, so…
Sunil Kumar: if I go to the sheet, if I go to the Spark sheet, I mean, this particular sheet, which is shared by the respective mentor.
Sunil Kumar: So, this is Grish Kumar. Dirish Kumar. And here, he's not ready. He's not ready. Now, if I go to the, this is MacSheet.
Sunil Kumar: This is MAC sheet, Mac level, so he's not ready.
Sunil Kumar: he's not ready in Spark module. Now, if I go to my…
Sunil Kumar: mapping. Let me search this Greece puma.
Sunil Kumar: Let me navigate to this Birish Pima. See, I think… yep.
Sunil Kumar: This is… Grish Kumar.
Enqurious 4: Sunil, can you… I, as I can see, all the scores are almost to zero, right?
Sunil Kumar: Yes, Shelley, all the scores are almost zero, but in the qualification…
Enqurious 4: left of it, then how are we getting this 81 in the dashboard?
Sayli: Exactly.
Enqurious 4: If all the stores are here 0, then why is it 81 there?
Sunil Kumar: Yes, sir. One minute.
Sunil Kumar: Let me populate the main sheet.
Enqurious 4: Holy …
Sunil Kumar: Right.
Enqurious 4: Chaitan, which is the source we are using to, to populate this into this dashboard?
Enqurious 4: Are we using those G-Sheets only?
Chethan: We are using Skills Course and also the Mac.
Chethan: Max suit.
Enqurious 4: Math sheets and the school score sheet. Now, skill score sheet is, as of now, as to what I understand, for L2s and L3s, it's separate. For L1 tenured, it's separate, and for CP, is it separate altogether, irrespective of the roles they are in? L1, tenured or L2s and L3s, is it?
Chethan: Yes.
Enqurious 4: So, if the G-Sheet is the source, and in Acha here, I think the scores are different.
Sunil Kumar: Yes, this is the score we have for British Kumar.
Sunil Kumar: But this is…
Enqurious 4: ESS.
Sunil Kumar: So this is not for just one learner, even I have fined it out for other learners also. Let me check for this.
Sunil Kumar: Memphis?
Enqurious 4: let's… let's solve this issue. So, Girish Kumar, he's a cloud engineer one, or he's a…
Sunil Kumar: He's from ESS, EASS, Cloud Inc.
Enqurious 4: Tomie, esses.
Sunil Kumar: Yep.
Enqurious 4: Keep it.
Sunil Kumar: Yes, yes.
Sunil Kumar: He's from ESS, so…
Enqurious 4: Okay, so we have scores here, but there was one more sheet which… in which the scores were zero, right?
Enqurious 4: So why are there duplicate sheets in which the spores are also mismatching?
amit choudhary: If I understand it properly, The previous one was,
amit choudhary: Spark, go to the previous sheet, which was… Having some score.
Sunil Kumar: Yes.
amit choudhary: This one This one, Spark is a column.
amit choudhary: The other one, Spark, is the sheet name.
amit choudhary: So, is it that in that sheet, only Spark skills across
amit choudhary: All the learners, is that the…
amit choudhary: container, every sheet is one skill, is that what we are saying? That other sheet, if you go…
Sunil Kumar: No, so if I scroll up.
Sunil Kumar: So this is the domain, this is the skill, this is the total score, score opt-inte.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
amit choudhary: This I get it, so…
amit choudhary: this one, this data which is coming in, right, say, book for Girish, no, what was that, Mansi?
Sunil Kumar: geese, it's… yeah.
amit choudhary: Girish Kumar. So this is Girish's data, that's it, right?
Sunil Kumar: Yes, this is Grish Data.
amit choudhary: Huh, so Girish, Girish in Spark domain.
amit choudhary: This is what is the… the MAC values are.
Sunil Kumar: Yeah, like, for this skill, out of this max, we should score this. Out of this conditional logic, this is the…
amit choudhary: The same data, this same table of Girish Kumar should be there in that other sheet also, right? Which was that some spark you were showing there.
Sunil Kumar: You can get…
Sayli: Yes, yes, yes.
amit choudhary: It's totally.
Sayli: Happy Sim Bhuna Jaye.
amit choudhary: Pop-based furniture, you know.
Sayli: Yes, yes.
amit choudhary: So, if it comes here, Because this sheet is what you are consuming there on the metabase… Dashboard.
amit choudhary: Or that does…
Sayli: Yes, we are not referring to this sheet, right? Sunil, we are referring.
Sunil Kumar: We're not referring to the sheet, we're referring to…
Sayli: This is the sheet that you are referring to.
amit choudhary: Okay, tougher.
Sayli: Huh.
amit choudhary: So if it is referring this, so now you're saying that this calculation somehow gets to the point where the Mac comes out to be not ready?
amit choudhary: While the skill score comes out to be high, like 81%.
Sunil Kumar: Yes.
amit choudhary: Okay.
Sunil Kumar: So skills, they have calculated, I think, just, they have some risk data.
Sunil Kumar: This data divided by this data.
amit choudhary: Correct, correct, exactly. So that would be Skills 4.
amit choudhary: And, when, say, the skills… the skill scores are high, so is the MAC levels and that skill score correlated, which means somebody with 10
amit choudhary: will… will be called as what? So, we say managed table. So, this managed table, 10 out of 10, is MAC 2. What does that mean? This managed table, is categorized somewhere, right?
Enqurious 4: No, no, no, this is a skill which is at Math 2 in the sheet which they gave. So, they've given us the skills from Math 1 till Math 5, right? Each skill is categorized either as MAC 1, so this is… this MAC is not the actual math which the candidate has scored. This is just, like, managed table is a MAC2 level of skill.
amit choudhary: I know, I know, this is a smack mapping. So we are… so then, the value which gets, so 10 out of 10.
Enqurious 4: Ms.
amit choudhary: qualifies that… we have some benchmark, right, for the… for this… at this value. 4 out of 10 make yahooga not qualified, something like that.
Enqurious 4: Can you see the last column here? There's this proficiency level. So, first, we individually calculate the proficiency for each individual skill. Then, after that, we have created the pivot. So, Sunil, can you please navigate to the sheet next to it?
Sunil Kumar: Yes, yes.
Enqurious 4: Spirit.
amit choudhary: No, whatever, no, hold on, hold on, go back, go back.
amit choudhary: So, this 1010, which comes is, is it based on some benchmark? Say, if, right, so if for every 4 I'm saying 0, so which means 5 or 6, it will still be 0. I think 7 is the benchmark.
amit choudhary: Eric?
Mandar: Yes, I'm gonna say, 7 is the benchmark.
amit choudhary: Exactly. So that is the benchmark, and that's why it is… it is a flag, actually. 101010. It's… it's like, either… either it will be…
Sunil Kumar: Qualified or not qualified, yes.
amit choudhary: Not qualified, right?
Mandar: Yes, sir.
amit choudhary: Okay, so the skill score, if the skill score is higher.
amit choudhary: the chance of qualification is higher, and hence their skill percentage should also be higher. I'm trying to understand that even that correlation, does it make sense or not? So, customer is looking at this.
amit choudhary: High skill score, which means did well, scored higher, 7, 8s, 9s, 10s, right? Then how are you saying they're not ready? So.
amit choudhary: It's a conflicting sort of a statement, and
amit choudhary: I think they're right, but we need to, again, look at it. Okay, how do you go from here to that calculation of ready, not ready?
Sayli: Oh.
Mandar: What's up?
Sayli: I can show you.
amit choudhary: I'm good.
Mandar: Hello? Yes, I'm…
Sayli: including.
Mandar: Yeah, sorry to interrupt, but I had a point. Sunil, can you navigate to the previous sheet?
Sayli: We…
Mandar: Jahapay, we were seeing 000 scores.
Sunil Kumar: Yes.
Sunil Kumar: this sheet.
Mandar: Yeah. So Saili, in this spark, we showed for Girish Umar.
Mandar: We should have 16, rows, right?
Sayli: Yes, I guess 16 rows are there.
Mandar: And then on top, I can see for Girish Kumar, there are 32 rows present. Is there a chance that there are duplicates present which might be conflicting?
Sunil Kumar: Yes, it's just one second.
Sayli: Huh.
Sunil Kumar: Yes, yes.
Sayli: correct, achahu duplicate card.
Sunil Kumar: That's why I was a little bit confused, yeah.
Sayli: Shiba lahat.
Sayli: Okay.
amit choudhary: Hold on.
Sayli: To maybe the not ready, that calculation was done, on top of.
Mandar: You go for it.
Sayli: For the records, exactly, huh.
Mandar: Because the script is written in such a way, it will take the very first instance whenever you get the candidate's name.
Sayli: Exactly, yes, yes, please. Hmm.
amit choudhary: But why this duplication will happen? What would lead to this duplication?
Mandar: Might be the case that this person attempted in the first go, but they did not complete, and we had to redeploy it to them. So, incarn do deployment IDs mein naamaya hovera.
amit choudhary: Let's investigate that.
amit choudhary: Girish Kumar, let's investigate this point.
amit choudhary: that were this person part of two different deployments. The first one, he didn't attend, because everything was zero.
Sunil Kumar: Yes.
amit choudhary: And the second one, he actually did it, but both got recorded.
amit choudhary: And if this is an average happening, then on one side is very good, and insertable is exactly zero, so averaging out to low.
amit choudhary: 0 and 10 will average to 5, hence not qualified.
amit choudhary: Okay, so it might be happening in the aggregate organ, and then it would be aggregating, say, by scale.
amit choudhary: But whatever it is, duplication is a problem. How will it happen, and is it happening frequently? One issue caught.
amit choudhary: But this needs to be validated by the actual thing, as you said, that were… was this person part of
amit choudhary: More than one deployment, and one he did not do, and the other one. That investigation needs to be done.
Sunil Kumar: Yes, I mean, sir. So, I've noted down, I need to check with Sameer and Jen this.
amit choudhary: Sure.
Sunil Kumar: I can say on this sheet why this duplication, does not happen, because here we just cater a pivot table, and we make sure that each and every participant should evaluate it on 41 skills.
amit choudhary: students.
Sunil Kumar: Yeah, maybe because of this pivot table, here we have avoided duplicate.
amit choudhary: Yeah, so, how? If it is duplicating, if it is doing count A, so count A will be counting the unique count, no? Or it will be counting, gigihap how many skills are, when I'm saying, for a person.
amit choudhary: 41 skills. So, that 41 skills would be unique skills, right? Ultimately.
amit choudhary: He's trying to…
Sunil Kumar: Unique skills, just one minute.
amit choudhary: There it does count A, correct?
amit choudhary: So what does COUNTA function do?
amit choudhary: So there's 41 which is coming, when I… when I filter only for Girish Kumar, and then filter on the skills that count of
amit choudhary: tags will come out to be 41. That's what we are saying, right?
Sunil Kumar: No, if I add this data also, if I add this data also, I mean, the previous
Sunil Kumar: code, all this data. So COUNT will be not,
Sunil Kumar: It should be 41 itself.
Sunil Kumar: Yeah. Because we'll be counting their unique skills.
Sunil Kumar: We'll be counting the unique skills. Yep.
amit choudhary: Okay, so, so one thing we understood is we caught was a duplicate record issue.
amit choudhary: Is there another set of issues to highlight and showcase? Let's see all the issues.
Sunil Kumar: Yes, yes, this is Avinash Yadav.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Sunil Kumar: I think this is… he's from, CP.
Sunil Kumar: Let me navigate to the portal.
Sunil Kumar: That'd be nice, though.
Sunil Kumar: Yep.
Sunil Kumar: use for delivering.
Sunil Kumar: So, he's not getting sugar.
Sunil Kumar: Okay.
Sunil Kumar: So, this guy is from Custom Product, and let me navigate To the skills group.
Sunil Kumar: Fine, Python. So here, we talk about Python, Python skills. See, Mac level expected is MAC3, participant MAC is also Mac 3.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Sunil Kumar: But the score is 45.
Sunil Kumar: score is 45. So, when the business team, or the management, this particular dashboard will be opened, so they will be a bit confused, although this particular person, Ashish Yadav.
Sunil Kumar: Avinash Yadav, he is… he achieved MAC3. That is my
Sunil Kumar: Okay, in Python model. But his score is 45.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
amit choudhary: I'm…
Sunil Kumar: Here we have clearly mentioned, here we have clearly mentioned that, overall score should be, at least should be above 65.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
amit choudhary: Understood, understood. So, we are saying that you have achieved the MAC level, With a low skill score.
Sunil Kumar: Yes.
amit choudhary: Okay, what does that mean? So, skill score is that out of all the skills which you had to acquire.
amit choudhary: Right? So it's about 10 skills of points 10 each, so 100 points you had to capture, and you could do well in, say… collectively, it came out to be 75.
amit choudhary: Right? So, 70, because it will be either 30, 40, 50, 60, because it's… it will go in count… skip count of 10.
amit choudhary: So, how is this person, Avina Shadow, coming in?
amit choudhary: Right? So, if you just select things, There are zeros.
Sunil Kumar: For a couple of skill sets, he… he got zeros, but few skill sets, he achieved 8…
amit choudhary: But… yeah.
amit choudhary: Yeah, they've achieved 8 tents. There are tents there.
Sunil Kumar: So if we add this, if I add this data…
Sunil Kumar: So, it would… it will be, I think, 90.
Sunil Kumar: 90, and if I add this… 90 or 12.
Sunil Kumar: 200.
amit choudhary: Okay.
amit choudhary: So… 200, 100, less than 50%.
Sunil Kumar: Huh, the same.
amit choudhary: Huh. So, it's… So, it's, this person has, and if you look at…
amit choudhary: all the Mark III skills. If you look at, in this… just copy this into a different sheet, no? This entire Avinashi Adam data.
amit choudhary: Justice… just is that… Range, range of…
Rohit: Sunil, if you see the right side, if you scroll to the right side, you can see the MAG3, how many he had achieved.
Rohit: Scroll to the right.
Sunil Kumar: Great job.
amit choudhary: What I'm saying is that in MAC 3s, he is…
Rohit: Go to Sheet 3.
Sunil Kumar: Oh, street 3, okay.
amit choudhary: Huh.
amit choudhary: So.
Rohit: North Korea.
amit choudhary: Are you saying the… how many Mac 1s? There are 3 Mac 1s?
Rohit: I'll go through the.
amit choudhary: It was… So, there are 4, 7, 10. So, there are total…
amit choudhary: 3 plus 3 plus 4. Now hold on, this again needs to be understood. Go back to that, sheet again.
amit choudhary: by… if you hand-count it, that's why I said copy-paste it somewhere.
Sunil Kumar: Good.
Rohit: Oh.
Rohit: There is a formula on the top.
amit choudhary: Hello, hold on, let's do it, let's do it.
amit choudhary: Bye.
amit choudhary: Let's do it manually.
Sunil Kumar: Let me create some new sheet here.
amit choudhary: Are we… woke corona, based by using… are we, sort karoo max pay?
amit choudhary: That column I have to sort of.
amit choudhary: Oi nospel.
amit choudhary: Sorted to Z.
amit choudhary: To get me back 3's hand.
amit choudhary: Total MAC3 skit na hai. Just found the MAC3.
Sunil Kumar: MAC 1, I think 5. Just one second. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Sunil Kumar: Smack life.
amit choudhary: That's…
Sunil Kumar: MAC 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. MAC 2 also 5. And MAC 3 are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
Rohit: MAC1R6, you are missing the very first one. It is used as a header.
Sunil Kumar: This is 16.
amit choudhary: So, this count and that count, different are…
amit choudhary: Varapedo, that table you basically just showed, that was some summary table, 334, Something which was published.
Sunil Kumar: Okay, this one.
amit choudhary: This one.
Rohit: 9, 6, and 5.
Rohit: MAC 3 has 9 skills, MAC 2 has 5 skills, and MAC 1 has 6 skills… 6-6 skills.
amit choudhary: Okay, that, row number 1659, is that what.
Rohit: Yes. Yes.
amit choudhary: So it's.
Rohit: Actually, it is getting from a formula. I have, routed the formula in the final score sheet, the top of it. So I'm… every time there is a deployment, I just use their email names.
amit choudhary: Okay, okay, okay. So you're getting that, and then that 659 is coming out correctly. So, from that 659, then, how is this 334 coming?
Rohit: So, I'm counting the proficiency, the… is it 1 or is it 0? If it is 1, then I'm counting it. If it's 0, it's getting ignored.
amit choudhary: Okay, so out of, okay, okay, fine, fine. So go back to that, detail sheet.
Sunil Kumar: efficient.
amit choudhary: So, another one which you copied, copied and pasted, the smaller table.
Sunil Kumar: This one.
amit choudhary: Yeah, so in MAC1, there were total 6 MAC 1s, and in how many they qualified? 1, 2.
Sunil Kumar: Only 2 they qualified. Three, three.
amit choudhary: 3, they qualified. Okay, got it. In MAC 3,
amit choudhary: In bag 3, there were 9, right?
Sunil Kumar: 7.
Rohit: Yes.
Sunil Kumar: Yep.
Rohit: 99?
amit choudhary: 9, or us may say kitne meh qualified, 12, 4 mein.
amit choudhary: Okay.
amit choudhary: So, Acha, up now, this thing, this thing comes in, these ones and zeros come, okay? So, point is that, what we are seeing, for their skill score, it is low, okay? If we are saying the skill score is low, right, which means that they did not do, say, that well.
amit choudhary: And… which means that their scores would be lesser
amit choudhary: 3, 4, 0, right? Or they didn't attempt, so it remains at 0. So if it remains at zero, that skill does not count, because it automatically becomes 0. It has to exceed 7, 7 and beyond, to be qualified as 1, to be flagged as 1.
amit choudhary: Okay, so, which means that, these zeros and ones, there will be a lot more zeros and lesser and lesser ones. So, how much this coming up if you just sum it up this column, G?
amit choudhary: Column G for these guys, Sam Kitna, right?
Sunil Kumar: in.
amit choudhary: N.
amit choudhary: And, total… What is the total count of… tags.
Rohit: 20… 20 attacks.
amit choudhary: So, 50%.
amit choudhary: Right? So, iska jo me a readiness type ka? Okay, now, from here to that readiness, it's not very clear to me if somebody can guide.
Soumyaranjan: How many…
amit choudhary: Yeah.
Soumyaranjan: are actually, like, in MAC label. So previously, we are calculating like this. If a participant is getting, like, for example, in MAC 1, he's obtaining all the MAC labels. And in MAC 1, let's say, everything is… his proficiency is 111 in MAC 1.
Soumyaranjan: But in MAC 2, let's say it is 000.
Soumyaranjan: But in MAC3, it is again 111. So, we are taking MAC3 as the highest MAC level for that particular learner.
Soumyaranjan: Here are the cases, for example, one participant is getting MAC 1, all the proficiency of MAC 1 is 0, and on MAC 2, it is again 0, but MAC3 is getting a proficiency 1. So, we'll keep all the highest MAC level as MAC3.
Soumyaranjan: But if we calculate the scale score, it is… it will be less, because in MAC 1 and MAC 2, he's getting lower math.
amit choudhary: Foods.
Soumyaranjan: This is the issue, like, for this Abhinas Yadav. In Mach 1, Mach 2, in some of the cases, he is getting lower… less mark, but in MAC 3, he's getting a higher mark. That is the reason he's taking MAC 3 as highest MAC level, but the skill score percentage is very low.
amit choudhary: E.
amit choudhary: But this… This needs to be somehow translated
amit choudhary: In a human… human… because I… I still didn't get it, okay? I, really didn't get it. How did this logic work, and, how… because when you look at it from the outsider perspective.
amit choudhary: The…
amit choudhary: First, let's look at what is the… just the information, and then let's look at the interpretation. The information, what is given. So, can you open that, report which gets generated? Because that report goes up.
amit choudhary: Okay, so if there is a… we need to understand the process in detail, because then only you can… it could be a problem in that the… because it's…
amit choudhary: It's, ideation… somebody's ideation, somebody thought through. Ideally, we should be leading the charge here and say, no, I understand your goal, but let me establish the process, let's do this way to achieve it. They are not the experts, we are the experts here. They have just set the goal. This is how we need… we need some process to identify right people for the rights… with the right skills for the right projects.
amit choudhary: Right? And for them, the source of the truth is that report. So if something feels odd to us.
amit choudhary: to the customer, it will definitely be odd. That report needs to be looked at from somebody who's consuming that person or taking that person into their project at their own risk, believing this report. We are saying they are pretty good, so they do pretty good.
amit choudhary: So, that interpretation becomes very important, but let's first see how the report looks like. Let's go, let's go to, again, Avinash Yadav's case.
Enqurious 4: I think Mandaras could be something.
amit choudhary: Yes, please, go ahead, go ahead.
Mandar: Samir Angel.
Mandar: Hello Soma, are you able to go?
Soumyaranjan: Beautiful.
Mandar: So for this particular level, is MAC3 the highest level that we have?
Soumyaranjan: Yes, Mandar, for Abhinas Yadav, this is the highest level.
Mandar: No, I mean, we are checking for Python, right?
Sunil Kumar: Yes, goodbye too.
Mandar: Or Python, MAC3 is the highest level?
Soumyaranjan: alone 10.
Mandar: I agree, Amarus.
Sunil Kumar: For Python, Mac3 is the highest level. This is for CP.
Mandar: Oh.
Soumyaranjan: Cpl1 team.
Mandar: Okay. Then, I think there is some miscommunication in calculation of the MAC readiness.
Mandar: Tu cuz.
Mandar: Amit sir, I'll just give you a couple of data points.
Mandar: Regarding this example…
Mandar: So, in Python, there are 3 MAC levels, MAC 1, MAC 2, Mach 3. When can I say that somebody is Mach 3 level, okay? If he has qualified MAC 1, if he has qualified MAC 2, and if that person is also qualified MAC 3.
Mandar: That is the most ideal case scenario.
Mandar: Where the person is qualifying everything, okay?
Mandar: Next, second scenario is… Let's say the person has qualified in MAC 1,
Mandar: But the person has not qualified in MAC 2,
Mandar: But the person is qualified in Mach 3.
Mandar: Okay. Then?
Mandar: The scenario is, MAC1 is good, MAC3 is good, and MAC 2 may the person is not ready as of now.
Mandar: So, do we say that the person is only MAC1 level? Ideally, the answer should not be yes, because that person has demonstrated good understanding across all the three levels.
Mandar: And just because they might have missed out on one or two skills in Mach 2, we are calling them as MAC 1 ready.
Mandar: Cool. Great.
amit choudhary: How is somebody… Getting to MAC3 without demonstrating
amit choudhary: Or without qualifying mark 2. If, marks are, like, rank order, somebody, first you need to be, like, it's like levels, right? I need to first be good at level 0, then only I can go to level 1, and then I have to be good at level 1, but then only I go to level 2.
amit choudhary: So, I, say, I start, and I demonstrate, say, either I'm ready or not ready at MAC 1, say I qualify MAC 1 or not, and whenever we… so, now, again, another related question is that in the content, when the skills are tagged.
amit choudhary: These skills are distributed across the three tags, the three max.
Mandar: Not evenly.
amit choudhary: Yeah, yeah, but first, are they distributed?
Mandar: How they're distributed.
amit choudhary: Okay, and then there are, based on the frequency with which they are appearing, that decides the weightage.
Mandar: Correct, exactly. Now, what we have decided is a person can only be considered as ready for MAC level if they are scoring 70% out of the total skills that are available.
amit choudhary: Eddie, Eddie.
Mandar: Correct.
Mandar: Now, let's suppose in MAC 2 we are only testing two skills.
Mandar: Now, in that case, the percentage is either going to be 50.
amit choudhary: Audible.
Mandar: 300.
amit choudhary: Got it.
Mandar: That is the uneven comparison that we are going to have.
amit choudhary: it.
Mandar: Okay, in that case, if the person has
Mandar: scored 50%, are we going to tell them just because out of the total 17, 18 skills, they missed out on one skill? Are we going to tell them that they're only MAC 1 ready? The answer should be no, right?
amit choudhary: Got it.
Mandar: That is why we have decided some threshold. What I'll do is I'll share one,
Mandar: SQL, sheet that I had created.
Mandar: Copy the link and I'll share it in the chat. Sunil, can you please open it once?
Sunil Kumar: Sure, Linda.
Mandar: Awesome, I've shared in the chat section.
Mandar: It might be appearing on the top of your screen.
Sunil Kumar: So…
Sunil Kumar: Moves this.
Mandar: I think the browser stopped responding. I mean, sir, what I can do is…
Mandar: I can maybe share a synopsis
Mandar: file with you, so that you get more clarity on this Mac selection process.
amit choudhary: No, so, one question I had was that, when we look at the most detailed granularity, which is at a given skill level, at MAC level, that skill is tagged to a MAC level, correct? CTE, CTE will be mapped to one of the Macs.
Mandar: Yes, exactly.
amit choudhary: And, we have a common rule that, that value, that out of 10, which is the value of that skill, if you get 7,
amit choudhary: or… and above, then the flag turns to 1, otherwise it remains at 0. Okay?
Mandar: Correct, yes.
amit choudhary: And then, for a given Mac.
amit choudhary: for a given map, Mac, we look at all the skills, and then we get that 1010 flag, right? We take a percentage of it, and there we have put a 65% this one, benchmark.
Mandar: Yeah.
amit choudhary: above 65%, but when we're saying 65%, there, and when you talked about this, there are only two skills being there, so there is only a 0 or 50 possible. If you have four skills, there is only, again, four values possible. If you have
amit choudhary: Talking about 70, 80, 90, like that, then minimum, you should have 10 skills then, for that.
Mandar: Yes.
amit choudhary: At Mac, right? Yes. And if you're going to 65, then you're getting halves.
amit choudhary: 7, 7.5, 8.5. So…
amit choudhary: Coming up to that 65% would… would… should also be something we should recommend that… and the one, this entire process, because this is so tightly integrated.
amit choudhary: that, every decision will matter. The way you're designing the instruction, then allocating the tags and totaling is going to impact it, and these kind of observations will come up.
amit choudhary: good that these things are happening, but they have. But the point is that he… iska synopsisna, but he clearly, if it has already been done, one is the analysis.
amit choudhary: Okay? That we analyze, that, okay, these are the… and these are… these are good hidden issues. I mean.
amit choudhary: there's not… everything is happening right, but then these are observations coming out, because the way things are designed, the way things are tightly integrated, the logic which we have, everything coming together to this outcome. So I think every single piece
amit choudhary: We'll play its part.
amit choudhary: Call it, Mandara, take it forward.
Mandar: Yes, I think there is some…
Mandar: As soon as browser is lagging a bit.
Sunil Kumar: Anyone can help me, like, share their screen?
Mandar: I can…
Sunil Kumar: approve me.
Mandar: Yeah, sorry, let me just do that.
Sunil Kumar: Who's this?
Sunil Kumar: So don't push it.
amit choudhary: I was also thinking, this way.
amit choudhary: Whatever we are maintaining through Sheets, wouldn't it be easier to just spin up a Superbase database and
amit choudhary: Just do a write and read from there, because in the end, these are tables.
amit choudhary: All of these are tables, and sheets, the problem is your copy-paste thing, and with a database with scripts, I think it would still be much more manageable, and I think you can use, again, Claude to kind of automate a lot of those tasks.
amit choudhary: But yeah, I'm just taking a sideline. Continue with our current problem first.
Mandar: Yeah, do let me know if you can see my screen.
amit choudhary: Yes.
Mandar: Yep. Oh, fair.
Mandar: So…
Mandar: I'll walk you through the process for simplicity. So, first is this MAC level, wherein I have decided, yeah, check group by… these are the skills that I've used in my SQL assessment, and these are the MAC levels, which are given to us by Mathcore team itself.
Mandar: So, group by aggregate is MAC2 level skill. Join is again a MAC2 level skill, window, again, is a MAC3 level skill.
Mandar: Okay.
Mandar: Then, what I do next is, once I complete an evaluation.
Mandar: The first four columns that you see
Mandar: are given to me from our database, wherein I add the deployment ID, and I pull out the skill score report.
Mandar: So for every learner who has given the SQL assessment, I create such kind… or I get such kind of scores from the database.
Mandar: Okay? Now, once that is done, what I do is, I come here, I paste it in the first four columns, and then these are the two columns which I am using a VLOOKUP, basically.
Mandar: So this is doing nothing but tagging whether
Mandar: Tagging the MAC level of the skill.
Mandar: And this is the flag, which we have already spoken about, you can see.
Mandar: If it is greater than 6, divide by 1, 0, something of that sort.
amit choudhary: I can see here we are putting a 6. What is the rule? 6? 7…
amit choudhary: Because here you see it is showing greater than 6.
amit choudhary: And greeted…
Mandar: risk.
amit choudhary: Oh, okay, so that's 7 above. Okay, got it, got it. Greater than 6 is…
Mandar: greater than 6 months.
amit choudhary: Yeah, yeah, yeah, 7 and above, got it.
Mandar: Okay.
Mandar: Okay. Then, what I do is, I've created this pivot table on top of the previous sheet.
Mandar: As soon as new new entries are added, such kind of data is populated. Now, first column, self-explanatory email. Second, are the different MAC levels that I have available across my assessment.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Mandar: Then, C column is count A of MAC. Basically, the total number of skills which are present in the assessment related to MAC 1.
Mandar: Then, D column is basically total number of skills which the learner has scored 70 or above in.
Mandar: So…
amit choudhary: Don't forget.
Mandar: Out of 3, in MAC level 1 skills, the person has only… is only ready in 1 skill. RESH2, they are not ready. They are scoring less than 7.
Mandar: Okay? Now, let's look at this case, and then it is giving me not ready, ready, and everything. Post that, I have this app script, which I run.
Mandar: And it gives me… I'll do one thing, I'll run this.
Mandar: And then it is giving me this section here, Mac Tools, and here I just go and say Process MAC Levels.
Mandar: As soon as I do that, I'm getting an entire list with the final MAC level readiness of that particular learner.
Mandar: Now, what is the logic behind this? That entire logic is explained in this particular Apps Script.
Mandar: If I try to give you the entire thing, the meeting will drag along. So, post this, I will give you a complete synopsis, but for now.
Mandar: I'll also tell you this person, Archin Pattro. So, let's come here and see, it is saying… it is saying MAC4, okay?
Mandar: So let's look at this case and understand why we are giving it matte food.
Mandar: So, we can see that in MAC level 1, he is not ready. That's okay.
Mandar: MAC level 2, he's completely okay, he's doing good.
amit choudhary: Always tough.
amit choudhary: In that first one, that 3 and 1, how is that, coming to qualification? One by three, simple.
Mandar: Simple. Simple.
amit choudhary: So, okay. And that is compared against what, again, 0.7?
Mandar: Not ready. If this is 0.65 ki, because it is 1x3, right? Getting 7HDP.
amit choudhary: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Mandar: So my point was, if it is 2 out of 3, I will say, okay, this person is ready.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Mandar: And then, for MAC level 2, again, that is the common denominator we have identified, because
Mandar: Even if it is 3 out of 4, the answer should be 75, which is greater than 65.
Mandar: If it is 2 out of 4, ideally it should not be ready. Again, the formula remains same, because 2 out of 4 will give me 50.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Mandar: So, this person will be not ready according to the current formula.
Mandar: Okay, so this is the common… 0.65 is the common, minimum number that we have identified for the qualification purpose.
Mandar: Here you can see.
Mandar: Mac Level 1, they are not ready.
Mandar: Mac level 2, they are ready. MAC level 3, also, they are ready. And MAC level 5, also, they are ready.
Mandar: So, ideally, should I call them Mach 5 ready? The answer is no, because my hard rule is, I will only call a person Mach 5 level ready if they are ready in all possible MAC levels.
amit choudhary: Boop.
Mandar: Okay, so this is eliminated now.
Mandar: Next.
Mandar: Mac… MAC one way, they could not answer two skills, they could not score above 75 in two skills. I can discount that because they are ready in the next two, next two levels.
amit choudhary: Hmm, hmm.
Mandar: And in Map 4, again, I'm discounting this not idle because I'm only testing 2 skills.
Mandar: They have qualified in one skill, and they have also shown me that they have the ability to write higher or qualify in higher level skills also.
amit choudhary: Doctor.
Mandar: is the reason why the final outcome which is coming is MAC4 for this particular individual.
amit choudhary: Hmm. Hmm.
Mandar: Does this make sense?
amit choudhary: Hmm.
amit choudhary: the moon.
Mandar: The logic is not very simple. I have this entire thing written.
amit choudhary: So, when we… when we say this logic, this logic is…
amit choudhary: what we have exclusively come up with, or is it something which is discussed and agreed with the customer? What is the scene?
Mandar: So, earlier with the customer, it was discussed simply that if the person is scoring above 70%.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Mandar: Then they should be ready.
Mandar: Okay.
amit choudhary: So, saying above 70%, but there is a…
amit choudhary: hierarchical level of calculations happening. First, there is this ground data, then some level of… so we are doing a bunch of transformations, and then we are doing some averaging, some percent, some calculations, ultimately getting to one number.
amit choudhary: Or something, which is giving me ready, not ready. So it's… in the end, from a bunch of scores, it's getting to a, binary value, ready or not ready. So…
Mandar: Go ahead.
amit choudhary: One, whatever is that process is happening, the customer might have
amit choudhary: have… might have had some impression about this, because when we think about a high level, we think in a very simpler way. Okay, 70 and above. But what 70 and above? Because here, it is about X number of Macs, and then for each of the Mac
amit choudhary: we are saying, okay, in that max, say, 70 and above, what does that mean? We have… we have a benchmark number, everybody, and most of us deviate towards 70%, 78th FC above TK. But then, there's a…
amit choudhary: representation difference also, right? Your… there is a weightage. So, could that… could that we do? That instead of when we say, do that sum of ones, I do that weighted sum instead of doing simple sum. Just go back to the previous one, I'm just…
amit choudhary: putting in some ideas that, one, your Mac… what is the thing? The thing is that, the Mac… the skills which are
amit choudhary: because it's okay, it's possible that some of these skills will have higher representation, some skills will have lower representation, so the lower ones get penalized simply because they are underrepresented. So what do we do? We use weightages.
amit choudhary: Right? So, when we use weightages instead of, say, direct, say, an average, you get weighted sum, or, like, weighted average, right? So, one, that could… that could, this outcome which comes, that ones and zeros when you start summing up, right? And, when you're doing with, say, across these max and all. So.
Mandar: Yep.
amit choudhary: that may be one thing. Second, when you come down to the logic of getting to the final readiness, this may… you are.
amit choudhary: sorting. So here, instead of looking at the logic, let's look at the outcome, the human outcome, okay? So we are saying that there are levels of skills.
amit choudhary: Correct? You first.
Mandar: hasn't…
amit choudhary: And when we… when people look at levels, they say it's a stair. You don't jump to the third one, then you take two steps back, then again, jump to the fifth one, and you celebrate that, then take four steps back. It's like your… your next level being ready, and the first level being not ready.
amit choudhary: it itself is a confusing thing, that unless you are good at Map 1, how are you saying that you are good at Map 2, or you're ready for MAC 2 also? So ideally, if Map 1 is not ready, MAC 2 shouldn't even… I'm just throwing out that it is nothing related to it, but.
Mandar: Yeah, yeah.
amit choudhary: Just trying to put in the perspective
amit choudhary: of how are we interpreting this? When we're saying final readiness, right? Can you… can somebody open up that report, open Karuna, report joking, put table banak data, that's a… that's a way… that's the right way to start, because that is the thing which that end delivery manager will look at and start questioning.
Sunil Kumar: Usually.
Mandar: Sunil, can you share that in the chat section? I'll open it.
Sunil Kumar: be.
Sunil Kumar: So, mathsco.com. Mandar.
Mandar: My job, it's cinematic.
amit choudhary: kan.
Mandar: Open it.
amit choudhary: One thing what I see is, and I think what I understand, is that all this logic needs to be documented and discussed, because they are depending on this for their results, so they need to be equally accountable for the logic.
amit choudhary: They can't say Chatum up no logic, they close, because whatever we have done, this is a pure consulting work, where I build what's…
amit choudhary: is your pain. So, you need to explain your pain points so that I can do correct diagnostics, and then give you the right medicine, right? So that's what… yeah, coming down to this one. So, expected, and it's like expected and actual, right? In SQL, I expected you to be at Mach 4.
amit choudhary: You are at MAC 4, great.
amit choudhary: And being at MAC4, your skill score is 77%, which means there is still scope of
amit choudhary: whatever, 23% or something, which you could capture, which you could not capture, but you have, you are satisfied the criteria, which means you should be at that, because in… I'm just thinking, in a given map, also, there will be some
amit choudhary: 50 points. So in MAC 4, suppose 100 points were supposed to be collected, right? In Mach 3, it was, 50 points were supposed to be collected. MAC 2, it was 20 points were supposed to be collected, and MAC 1, it was, again, 60 points were supposed to be collected. So we know that MAC 2 is underrepresented here.
amit choudhary: Okay, because there are lesser number of… lesser number of skills. But the point is that WOTA and exam is easy scoring sections. So you pick up the easy scoring sections and score well, but then, a map for
amit choudhary: could be an easy problem, versus a Mac 2 could be a difficult problem, correct? So, ultimately, in a difficult problem of a lower Mac, you could score low.
amit choudhary: All these things are possible. So, when people are looking at… if either you look at this.
amit choudhary: Mac, readiness, that says, ready, not ready.
amit choudhary: These two things together.
amit choudhary: is leading to confusion. That's why I'm questioning it again and again. A person expected at Mach 4, being at Mach 4, then what is the correlation we are drawing with skill score? You're doing really, really well.
amit choudhary: and you are at Mach 4. So, if you're doing really well at MAC 4, I'm assuming that you would have done really well at the lower levels. The lower MACs should not then impact, should not eat away the contribution of the higher levels. So, that's where
amit choudhary: this… at this last level, when we are doing… I think we are doing fairly well till the point we're getting that ones and zeros, but then those ones and zeros, too, getting converted to here.
amit choudhary: And for your consumption, say if I tell them to, for your consumption, you are saying that, I was expecting them that, for SQL, they should have achieved MAC4, they have achieved Mach 4. Great.
amit choudhary: If somebody wants to dig in, okay, what did they achieve? What was their, thing they did? So, when they look at that, they look at everything, and they discover that in the details, which is the next level detail is, from here, suppose I click, I will be going to what? That other sheet which you showed, right? Can you go to that sheet?
amit choudhary: Ojita, ek individual.
Mandar: Viscent.
amit choudhary: Yes. So, Anchet Patroka, your detail, say, because this is converting to that, right? Final outcome.
Mandar: No. Benny?
amit choudhary: MAC4 Majara hai, and we are telling that person is not ready, correct?
Mandar: Hmm.
amit choudhary: ready nahi hai MAC4Pay.
amit choudhary: Take care. So, toh Mach 5 me ready here, or MAC 4 me not ready here. Take care. MAC 2, 3 mein ready agar. Mac43 mein ready to challenge, because I don't care, because if I'm testing you for MAC 4, I'm expecting you to be ready for MAC 2 and MAC 3.
amit choudhary: Okay. But you see here, what is happening is map 1 is pulling, again, things down. It has 0.3.
amit choudhary: Okay, so your Mach 1 Juhay, Mach 1 is a lower level skill, just make you have scored poorly, okay? And if, and at the expected MAC, you have, scored poorly.
amit choudhary: Okay, but the one which I'm not even expecting you, today, say, MAC4, MAC 5, I'm… if I'm not expecting you to be at MAC 5, why are we even assessing them for Mach 5?
amit choudhary: That would be my question.
amit choudhary: Okay.
Mandar: That's.
amit choudhary: Do you see it?
Mandar: Okay, now, yeah.
amit choudhary: Okay, I'm saying, my expectation is that you should be at Mach 4, correct?
amit choudhary: So, why am I testing you for backfile?
amit choudhary: Okay, so… because MAC4… and I think that's where you ended up rejecting, actually, Mac. For what to apne logicke through, ultimately, you ended up doing that.
amit choudhary: Let's look at it more from the… common sense, none of the logic will make any sense.
amit choudhary: Okay? The common sense, okay, and all this could be points of conversation, where we say, let's validate these steps, because these are important steps. I'm doing some transitions, average versus weighted sum, sum versus weighted sum, it will make a difference.
amit choudhary: But all those things, one, documented precisely, step by step, and then put in front of them, if required, travel, sit with them, discuss it, because it requires
amit choudhary: deeper discussion. Maybe we change the logic itself, because we know what is the outcome needed, and what is, that if the skill score is not, if you're putting them together, and that is leading… it's like, it's called proximity thing, right? Two values are next to each other, I start comparing.
amit choudhary: Oh, MAC4, MAC4 expected the ausco score both high yuan Aceh ye.
amit choudhary: Apka expected tha Mak 4 per, but MAC4 miss was 100 points cover karnata. Ap Mak 4 per 75 karpah. Apo 70 benchmark tha aapne 75 kar lia. So, expected.
amit choudhary: Take care. So, that's… I think this is where… and I strongly believe escape beyond Johota, the queries which we are writing, and the reports and dashboards which we are creating. I hope at least there.
amit choudhary: we are okay. So, let's take a pause here, Mandar, and let's go back to Sunil and check if there are other issues, again, more issues beyond this you want to highlight. Let's, again, ensure that all the issues are covered.
Mandar: There is just one point, sir, which I'd like to include, and then we'll… I'll conclude this.
Mandar: I understand, Key, you're saying Mac4 should be the highest level which we are testing, right?
Mandar: But the issue is, this is not common across the different roles that we have.
amit choudhary: Fantastic.
Mandar: For senior, there might be MAC3 requirement. For junior, there might be… sorry, for senior, there might be MAC4 requirement. For junior, there might be MAC3 requirement. But we don't have the liberty to create that many multiple sets of assessments.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Mandar: all the issue why we had this common denominator of MAC 5, and it was also communicated well in advance with Mathcore, that we will cover all the skills that are available across the MAC levels that you have shared.
amit choudhary: So, Tikkei. So, I think then, agar, Kathan nagi agar says, Solnikar is 4 sagar solnikar is the destination basal ki, which means ki tumara logic fear consistently ye karna chay ye, kike, total 5 maks hai, lekin expected Mach 4 hai, toh, drop MAC 5.
amit choudhary: again, expected MAC3 here. So drop MAC 4, Mach 5. Even… Usku calculations say drop out card, though. You consider only till Mach 3, and then…
amit choudhary: And then do it. Mac 4 and Mac 5 will start?
amit choudhary: are impacting. Mach 3 is the max it can go, right? Because I also saw, at some report, I believe, the expected was Mach 3 and the person was at Mach 5.
amit choudhary: So, are we saying overqualification is also a valid case? Or is it just, like, this is what caps? Either you are here or below?
Mandar: Got it.
amit choudhary: So…
amit choudhary: So, and this is something which… and that's why I wanted to refrain from
amit choudhary: Simply, coming and saying that, okay, there's a pro…
amit choudhary: I'm very rationalist in terms of, like, if there is a problem, there must be some… something going on, because people are doing their job properly, or everybody is trying to deliver flawless outcomes. But somewhere in the process, somewhere in the way things are being done, I see there are multiple sheets being created, I see there are pivots
amit choudhary: happening, all these are sol… all these are solved problems, right? And I don't see anywhere where the logic is so complex that it cannot be codified.
amit choudhary: it can be codified in minutes. I can give this transcript, these screenshots, those sheets, it will figure it out, it'll create a… some Python script, and in one shot, you will get… you just… and then you create a skill out of it, call that skill, one person own that, Obisun will run that.
amit choudhary: it gets done. So, things are… things are possible from that end, but the point is that, what…
amit choudhary: needs brainstorming is what needs human input is this entire process, the way it is going, right? Something as simple as lower representation of a Mac compared to other Mac, which means under-representation, over-representation, which is fine, because then we are very clearly saying that this is what I want to emphasize. Emphasis, weighted, right?
amit choudhary: So, I think, Sunil, number one thing what needs to be done is this needs to be documented.
amit choudhary: Okay? Properly. What I was… the first thing which I wanted to understand was this entire… but we started with the issues, and we are getting to understand it in much detail. Lot of sheets, lot of data, copy-pasting, all those things going on, which is how it has naturally progressed, but a lot of it…
amit choudhary: should be fixed and is possible to fix, but let's continue and cover other issues. What are the different types of issues which are existing? What are the other hidden bugs which are sitting? Let's figure out.
Sunil Kumar: Sure. So, a couple of other learners also, while testing, we figured out there was some issue with the MAC level.
amit choudhary: E.
Sunil Kumar: There's some kind of, constraint at my end.
Sunil Kumar: So, when you can go ahead and share the screen.
amit choudhary: Hmm. Some… Chaitan, you must be having access to all that, no? You can…
Sunil Kumar: Yes…
amit choudhary: Share screen, go to that report.
amit choudhary: Open it up. What is the discrepancy?
amit choudhary: And, Sunil, as you're… when you're raising all this, are these the concerns which customer has also raised?
Sunil Kumar: Yes, and there are other concerns also, I will come to that. Gotcha. Yeah.
Sunil Kumar: Chitan, you may, search for Ashi Bush.
Sunil Kumar: Fight.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Sunil Kumar: If you see the SQL and DB, SQL and DB management.
Sunil Kumar: Similar kind of issue, like, expected is back 3, the particular participant's score, skill score is 73, but,
Sunil Kumar: The participant is not ready.
amit choudhary: Hold on.
amit choudhary: When expected rule is MAC3, how come the participant MAC is not ready? It should be some Mac, right? Mac 2, Mac 1.
Sunil Kumar: Oh.
amit choudhary: Ye Kehora.
amit choudhary: Can somebody answer that?
Sunil Kumar: We can open the sheet.
amit choudhary: No, this is huge.
Sunil Kumar: Picture.
Sunil Kumar: Do you think?
amit choudhary: I could clearly see there is a MAC value called a not ready. Not ready is a status, not a value. You see there? Not ready.
amit choudhary: Yeah, not true. Not a valid MAC value, right? It has only 5 valid MAC values, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
amit choudhary: What is not ready? NA could still also be that, okay, Matt, maybe if there is a null value, possibility of null value, then still NA could be, but how come not ready is a…
amit choudhary: Mac value.
Sunil Kumar: not ready, it means that the particular participant did not qualify for MAC1 also.
Sunil Kumar: Machine bush.
Sunil Kumar: Yeah, for DBN…
amit choudhary: So what happened? This person?
Sunil Kumar: So, not ready, simply means that there's…
Sunil Kumar: participant did not qualify for MAC Level 1 also. That's why we put as not ready.
Sunil Kumar: But the score is 73. We would have given at least MAC 2 or MAC 1.
amit choudhary: Again.
amit choudhary: score coming out as 73, of this person, with, like, 73%, so it's like, okay, this person did good. The first impression is that this person good.
Sunil Kumar: Excellent.
amit choudhary: Suddenly, suddenly this person becomes not ready.
Sunil Kumar: Not really.
amit choudhary: So, there is a, either… so that's why I said those two things need to be first looked at differently. For skill score and this one, we have to come to a point where we say if there is a correlation or not, should they even be looked together or not?
amit choudhary: Right? Because skill score is simply saying that, the total values, which is 10 multiplied by total number of skills, and the numerator is any values going from 0 to 10, the sum of that.
amit choudhary: Right? That's the skill score, but when we come to Mac.
amit choudhary: We look at individual values, so somebody scoring high at individual skill level is bound to get 111, right? And ultimately, that percent is going to go up.
amit choudhary: Right? So, for that person, again, the same logic what Mandar applied. Can you apply that same logic and come down to the final map value manually?
amit choudhary: Whichever was that person, Aichen, Ghosh, or whatever. Can you do that?
amit choudhary: I think what may actually watch Tanakata.
Sunil Kumar: In the chat.
Sunil Kumar: Just a moment.
Sunil Kumar: A-I-S-H-I, yes. Second, hello?
amit choudhary: Second one.
amit choudhary: I see kosher.
Sunil Kumar: for you. Go.
amit choudhary: Okay, so we are saying, in SQL, the expected role
amit choudhary: Mac was Mac 3, and participant Mac is not ready.
amit choudhary: What really means not even qualified for MAC one. As long as I'm looking at role and participant MAC, I'm feeling that, okay, poor performance. Suddenly, I look at skill score, wow, 73%.
amit choudhary: Right? So, it is definitely misleading. So, something is happening. So, which means now, if I want to analyze this, okay, what happened? So, we go to the next level. The next level was that sheet.
amit choudhary: That sheet was there, right?
amit choudhary: For, for that person. No, the detail sheet.
Sunil Kumar: Skills course sheet.
amit choudhary: Huh.
amit choudhary: So, again, you copy this data separate, so again, let's look at, mac One's tools.
amit choudhary: Interestingly, there's just one Map 3.
amit choudhary: There is just one Mach 3 here.
amit choudhary: And the person has this sorted by column F.
amit choudhary: Yeah, what I think.
Enqurious 1: select the first… first row, and click on Filter.
Enqurious 1: Clinical for center room.
Enqurious 1: No more muted.
Chethan: Line, man.
amit choudhary: So there are 9 MAC 1s.
Chethan: Pardon.
Chethan: laptop.
amit choudhary: one…
Sunil Kumar: 52 and one Mac3.
amit choudhary: So, Mac, it's… it clearly appears that he… he qualified MAC 2.
amit choudhary: Sub 1H.
amit choudhary: MAC1 also, he appears to have qualified. There are, like, I think, Dit Kilagara, there are, like, 6 ones, I think, 1, 2, 3.
amit choudhary: 4, 5, 5 ones.
amit choudhary: take a Mac one, not 12, but back to the qualified affair.
amit choudhary: MAC 3 not qualified.
amit choudhary: So we are saying not ready.
amit choudhary: Somebody who did good at intermediate level.
amit choudhary: We are saying not ready, which means not even good for math one. There is a flaw in the…
amit choudhary: Way this gets calculated.
amit choudhary: Okay, there is a flaw.
amit choudhary: It's not coming out,
amit choudhary: Because one, your MAC 1, 2, 3, 4s, they are… there is a rank order in this data. They are… they're, like.
amit choudhary: Nominal data, but rank, right?
amit choudhary: So, rank hai toh, then we look at that, okay, somebody qualified for MAC 1, didn't qualify for MAC 1, then qualified for MAC 2, didn't qualify for MAC 3, then qualified for MAC 4. What do we say overall? Because all these Macs need to come out to one Mac, then.
amit choudhary: where do we place this person? Should we place… push this person down? Should we push that person up? That's where I think our…
amit choudhary: Confusion is happening.
amit choudhary: Yes, please, the answer.
Divyanshi Sharan: Yes, I just wanted to clear something here. So, this is really about the miscommunication about how are we ranking the skills. So, what, I have done is that, Sunil, if you can open the sheet that we have for,
Divyanshi Sharan: equivalent management, Oh, or maybe let me share it as a slide there on the page.
Divyanshi Sharan: I'm sharing it with you.
Sunil Kumar: Yeah, maybe, Devyansha can put it in the chat.
Divyanshi Sharan: But.
Sunil Kumar: Yes, Chitan, can you open this sheet?
Sunil Kumar: Hello, Jetan, are you there?
Divyanshi Sharan: Hey, thank you for sharing that.
Sunil Kumar: book.
Divyanshi Sharan: Jay, it is there in the chat. I just pasted the link.
Divyanshi Sharan: Zoom chat.
Divyanshi Sharan: Okay, so here, the scores were right.
Divyanshi Sharan: And here, if you look at the last sheet, what is happening is that this person is not ready for MAC 1. This person is ready for MAC 2, but again, he's not ready for MAC 3 also.
Divyanshi Sharan: So, technically, he's not ready for MAC 3. For MAC 2, he's ready, but the thing is that he was not able to clear MAC 1, and that is why, according to my logic, I've given him that, okay, he was not ready.
Divyanshi Sharan: Because he has to, clear some set of skills to reach MAC 1, but he has not even cleared MAC 1, and that is why he couldn't reach MAC 2. That was my understanding before we had this, meeting today.
Divyanshi Sharan: Nope.
amit choudhary: So, Divenshi, are we… are we saying that, your logic of… so, what is that you end up with? So,
amit choudhary: The skills… the skill score, the data which comes out of the… after evaluation, that will be the skill tags and the scores, 7, 8, 0, 1, whatever, right?
Divyanshi Sharan: Yes, sir.
amit choudhary: then that converts to Mac mapping, I hope that is also fine, the mapping of the map to the one. And then, from there, what do you do? You copy-paste something somewhere. So…
Divyanshi Sharan: Yes, so we create this pivot table,
Divyanshi Sharan: Chaitan, can you just, click on the third sheet, maybe?
Divyanshi Sharan: This is the first sheet, it has the mapping. Second is, from where I paste everything on the sheet. Third one is the pivot table, where we have all the skills, and we check whether a person is clearing the given threshold or not. So, here.
Divyanshi Sharan: this person is not clearing MAC 1 at all, but he is able to somehow clear MAC 2 without clearing the first basic set of skills, and then automatically he's not ready for that. So that is why, according to this
Divyanshi Sharan: logic, I gave him not ready, because he was not able to clear Mach 1's set of skills, but somehow he was able to clear MAC 2, and MAC 3 is also not ready, so according to my understanding, this person was not able to clear, MAC1, and that is why not ready.
Divyanshi Sharan: Bellumer.
amit choudhary: So this logic, what we are following, is that only in understanding? Was it just a verbally discussed and agreed one? Isn't it documented somewhere? Isn't there a common place from where we are… everybody's referring it
amit choudhary: Again, Sunil, Mandar, Malsi.
Enqurious 1: Hello? How much are I'm audible?
amit choudhary: Yes.
Enqurious 1: Yup.
Enqurious 1: Boo… Given the cur- given the flow that we have been given from the MATCO team.
Enqurious 1: We, at the end of the day, have to give them a map level, whether it is 1, 4, 5, whatever it is, right? So, if a person is not ready for any level, then, because of the design of the assessment.
Enqurious 1: We believe that we should… I believe that we should at least have MAC1 as the level.
Enqurious 1: Because we know, in none of the cases, MAC1 is the bare minimum qualification.
Enqurious 1: Irrespective, the person is not getting qualified for the role anyways.
amit choudhary: But hold on, and what I'm… my question is the logic which you explained to come up.
amit choudhary: The logic which Divianci is using, there is a.
Enqurious 1: Yeah.
amit choudhary: So, that difference… that difference is because of a difference in understanding. She understands the calculations happens in method A,
amit choudhary: you talked about a method B, I'm not sure how many other methods are existing, people… which people are following, because again, these people are doing with some pivot XYZ, some calculation, and ultimately updating here.
Enqurious 4: So, Amit, sir, actually, because there are different skills, so let's talk about at a higher level first. So, let's say there's a role of L2. Take care.
amit choudhary: Include?
Enqurious 4: Dad.
Enqurious 4: Now, in Edit, there will be different skills. So, let's say we have SQL, we have Power BI, or either Tableau, then we'll have Machine Learning, Python, etc, etc.
Enqurious 4: Now, each of the skills will have its own number of skills. So, let's say in Power BI, we are testing only 3 skills. Now, all those skills earlier for L2, they were falling only under Mark 1. Okay.
Enqurious 4: So, because of those number… 3 number of skills, as, first of all, the number of skills are different in each of the cases. Secondly, there comes in a variation of the roles as well. So, for L2 and L3, or let's talk about L2 only within L2 also.
Enqurious 4: two skins are optional, somebody's choosing local MN, so two skins will not be applicable. So, basically, there are a lot of combinations and permutations which are happening, because of which, coming to one fixed procedure was a little difficult for all of us.
Enqurious 4: So?
amit choudhary: I understand. I understand that there was a phase where we were struggling, because I remember, this automation key discussion for the we had
amit choudhary: that Kikuch, there's so much of variation that we can't even.
Enqurious 4: It won't sanitize me, karpah, because there's a lot of variation in it.
amit choudhary: Yeah. So, did we improve from there, or is it like we've just been carrying that, and we, sort of, some method got created where somehow this is happening? And,
amit choudhary: We are still following that.
Enqurious 4: So, now, what we have done is, so mostly for, like, we have tried to standardize the process, till a point where we can, all of it, like, for say, where we were getting the zeros and ones from. So, we have decided that benchmark, which will be 6, so till that, it will be same. But since after that…
amit choudhary: So, what I'm trying to understand is, the first level, where the… at the most granular level, the… the map, the ones and zeros which we come.
amit choudhary: And then, from the ones and zeros, MAC level, we get the aggregation, and then we again benchmark at 65%, right? Till there, I think it's happening in a standard way, but from there to that final one MAC,
amit choudhary: Exactly. Some logic which Mandar explained, right? And she following something, and that is the part which has been continuously a difficult area and a gray area, and which is where it is kind of popping up in all these reports here and there.
Enqurious 4: Yeah, gray, and also an area where we are having some diversification, the reason being because, again, there are a lot of exceptions also we have to consider. So, as Mandaria was saying, that we have to give them some level. But then, suppose if somebody is not ready at any level, we have to also give them not ready.
Enqurious 4: And then, the same logic, suppose if somebody's not ready at MAC 1, but somebody's ready at MAC 2, and then MAC 3 also. So, Malav keeps… there's her candidate, and there are 3 levels, MAC 1, MAC 2, MAC 3. One case one we consider?
Enqurious 4: Candidate 1 is idle in all the conditions. He has passed MAC 1, he has passed MAC 2, he's passed MAC 3. Idly, it should be MAC 3. But then there's another candidate who has not passed Math 1, but he has passed MAC 2 and MAC3. So, if we give him also MAC3, so there will be a biasness towards him.
Enqurious 4: he has not cleared MAC1, so we take it as exception, maybe because of some of the reasons, he has not been able to clear Mach 1, but we shouldn't keep that as benchmark and not give him not ready. Like, give him a status of not ready. He cares. But then, if we give him MAT3 exactly.
Enqurious 4: So it will be a biasness towards the person who has cleared all the Mac, starting from MAC 1. So maybe what logic we can use here is, can we just stop it at MAC 2? This is usually what I do. So because of that, there's a lot of exceptions we have to consider, so that the logic cannot be standardized. So, that is the issue we are facing, mostly, I think.
amit choudhary: So… but we have been saying this. So, did we find opportunity to take this up with the customer that
amit choudhary: here is a gray area, we want to highlight things with you, discuss, showcase, because in the end, it's an analytics problem. They are an analytics company, even though whatever they're LNDM they are. Did we find opportunity to, highlight, discuss, showcase, have a deeper discussion? Did it happen anytime?
Enqurious 4: Not a deeper discussion, but yes, I have highlighted this. So, when Shashank used to, analyze this, I used to sit with him and explain him everything, not just one time, like, multiple times. So, I've explained to him all the times that this is an issue, because there are some exceptions who are not clearing Math 1.
Enqurious 4: But they are clearing the higher MAC level, so we can't stop them. So yes, I have brought this up to him, brought this up to them, but have not a chance to discuss it deeper and find a solution for it.
amit choudhary: Correct. So I think it's high time, Sunil, that this should come to the front, because it has start… earlier it was POC, and then he would also be in a mode that, okay, I also need to report, because we are
amit choudhary: We are trying to find a solution to a problem which we don't even completely understand.
amit choudhary: Okay, so we are getting… putting our heads into building logic, creating algorithms, but we are not spending time in defining the problem better.
amit choudhary: How do I come to a Mac? An expected Mac versus an actual. It's an expected versus actual.
amit choudhary: And if there is a level, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, as I said, I'm not, how do I go up? One step at a time, right? I don't jump to step 3, and then come two steps back, and then jump to 5, and then comes to 2 steps back.
amit choudhary: So, in a way, if there is a sequence, and if it's a hard sequence, then unless you are good at 1, how can you be good at 2? If you're not good at 2, how can you be? So, I show that I am great at 3, so which means it's assumed that I'll be good at… so it's like, then if I'm good at 3, 2 and 1 shouldn't even matter.
amit choudhary: Right? If I put this one, this person, Aishi, not ready for 1, 2 ready, okay, 3 not ready, so Vince, I can… the best I can say is good for 2.
amit choudhary: MAC 2.
Enqurious 4: Hmm.
Enqurious 4: Right.
amit choudhary: That's it. Okay. Let's pick another example. This person. Atul, how is easy. Ready, ready, ready. Okay. Or, or Nikolo, example.
amit choudhary: What… what are we saying? MAC3, MAC 2, okay? MAC3, MAC3, MAC 2, MAC2?
amit choudhary: Back to what is NA? What is the difference between NA and not ready?
amit choudhary: Not tickets.
Enqurious 4: Not, huh, not applicable. N is not applicable. They have choice for 3 clouds, and if they've chosen one, so other two would be not applicable for them, and not ready means they have not even, they have not been able to clear the lowest Mac also, which is MAC1.
amit choudhary: Okay, okay. So, not ever… not applicable, NA is not applicable, and again,
amit choudhary: Chaitan, it should be mentioned, NA, people understand as not applicable and not available both. Both have different meaning.
Enqurious 4: No, I think we have mentioned in the end, in the definitions here, it's mentioned already.
amit choudhary: Okay, okay, good, good. Okay, let's come back.
amit choudhary: So, again, let's come to this person. Srilaksmi, let's go back to her detail, this one. So, what is that we are telling this person for that, skill?
amit choudhary: The final outcome for this one is?
amit choudhary: Where do we say ready, not ready? This is a report, but is there a ready, not ready thing which we are saying?
Chethan: No.
amit choudhary: Okay, no, so when… again, the final one is coming as rule readiness, right? Ready or not ready? So, how is that coming in? So…
amit choudhary: This is the…
amit choudhary: What do you say? The skill level thing is for AWS, for front-end, back-end, all those things.
Sunil Kumar: This is a CP data, I think, for custom product. For custom product, as of now, we are not populating the role readiness. We are just populating the…
amit choudhary: if they don't.
Sunil Kumar: on that level.
amit choudhary: need that. Okay, okay, okay. So for CP, if you look at this one, okay, expected was MAC3, the person was at Mach 2, and at MAC 2, the person scored well. That's fine. So, which means that till MAC 2, this person is good. Makes sense if I try to correlate with skill score, even if I drop skill score.
amit choudhary: It is a fair thing to… okay, MAC3 expected tha, MAC2 para banda. 3 tha 2 pareh. Tootha 2 pareh, good. So, 2 tha 2 per hai. 2 tha, 2 expected tha, but iskhi applicable nahya. Makes sense.
amit choudhary: CPKL.
amit choudhary: But again, CP is easier because, oh, final logic apply niyo tay uspe.
amit choudhary: Take care. The problem is where the final logic… so I think we are looking at the wrong
amit choudhary: use case here. Let's look at the use case where that last step is applicable. There is where we are
amit choudhary: getting discrepancies. Put something which applies in that case.
amit choudhary: No, again, who's doing this? I'm looking for the case where the last level of role ready
amit choudhary: Report, the other report which, Sunil, you were showing.
Divyanshi Sharan: Jason, the last, tab, maybe.
Divyanshi Sharan: TPL1 sequel and DZ.
Chethan: Yeah, advance.
Divyanshi Sharan: On the Chrome tab, the last tab, the sheet one.
Chethan: Okay.
Enqurious 1: Chaitan, can you do one thing? Can you go to the Mathcore portal and search for Arts in ATC, I think it was…
Enqurious 1: From ESSN… no, no, within the…
Enqurious 1: within the report only that you are showing, I think, metal is red.
amit choudhary: pull out as many cases where we are giving them a verdict, ready, not ready. That last level is where
amit choudhary: We have discrepancy in decision.
Enqurious 1: President Chitan, here in this sheet, select anybody from ESS or DAC.
Sunil Kumar: It's cheating.
Chethan: discount.
Sunil Kumar: So maybe you can choose, Saman Chicken, highlighted in red in color. Go to the sheet, deck.
Sunil Kumar: Excel sheet.
Sunil Kumar: use.
Sunil Kumar: So this one, I think we can discuss Oshiba,
Sunil Kumar: The expected is MAC2 for SQL, but participant got MAC1, and the skill score is 80.
Enqurious 4: Yeah, I'll… but so this is for SQL, right?
Sunil Kumar: Yes.
Enqurious 4: I'm opening up that sheet.
Enqurious 4: But I have it for core, skins.
Enqurious 4: for the schools.
Sunil Kumar: Huh, SQL, Python, Power BI? I mean, BI skills? Really.
Sunil Kumar: So the concern is, like, this particular participant, I mean, Shivam, he…
Sunil Kumar: for SQL, but his skill score is 80, so…
amit choudhary: So, when we are saying, here, if we see…
amit choudhary: SQL, the expected was Mach 2, the actual is MAC 1,
amit choudhary: Correct? And in MAC 1, your skill score is 80%. So, did qualify for MAC 2, but till Mac… as a MAC 1 guy, you are good.
amit choudhary: If I… if I look at this one, this is how I am interpreting.
Sunil Kumar: Chaitan, just scroll down, scroll down, so we'll read the qualitative feedback.
Sunil Kumar: Chaitan has scrolled down. So, this is the feedback that we are writing. So, strength observed, Shivam demonstrated from understanding…
amit choudhary: The learner is currently not ready. Again, not the… again, discrepancy.
amit choudhary: What the sports are coming in, what is the feedback coming in, how is this feedback coming?
Sunil Kumar: So this is what I want to communicate. So, Chetan, if you go to the sheet, the Excel sheet, where… from where you've copied the name, the Shiva.
Sunil Kumar: So, ha, here, if you look at record number 114, Shibang, so it is highlighted in red in color. That means for SQL, he's not, he did not qualify the MAC level. That's why he's… he's not ready.
Sunil Kumar: If all the skills for all the modules, if it would be in green in color, it means…
amit choudhary: So, if map 1 is red.
amit choudhary: Okay, the Mac one is red, the person is not ready. Overall not ready, correct?
amit choudhary: Good.
Enqurious 4: So even if one skill is not matching with the expected Mac.
Enqurious 4: Madhlav, we have, let's say we are assessing four skills here. Even if one skill does not match with the expected max, in that case, the person becomes not ready, was the logic which we received. Now, Sunil and Chadoom, in the recent times, has there been some other communication? Matlav, are we deciding the role readiness on the basis of the total skill score?
Enqurious 4: Because earlier, this is the logic which we were using, which was being communicated to us.
amit choudhary: Again, hold on. Hold on there, hold on there. So, this person, we have, I think four categories, right? What is this FGHI?
Enqurious 4: Which one?
amit choudhary: Column F.
Sunil Kumar: Very exciting.
Enqurious 4: Yeah, open… they are the skills. So, first is, I think, yeah, SQL, Power BI, Tableau, then Python, I think, and then EV specifics.
amit choudhary: So, we are saying in SQL, this person is at MAC 1.
Sunil Kumar: Mac 1, and he should be at Mac 2, but who's at MAC 1? That's why they're declined.
amit choudhary: Expectation was that the person should have been at MAC 2, but the person ended up at MAC 1, and based on the previous logic, if the person was lower than the expected MAC, the person is not ready.
Sunil Kumar: Yes.
amit choudhary: Okay? But that logic has evolved, then…
amit choudhary: Okay, the… the way… this one… so the… the… and this must be older data.
Sunil Kumar: No, this is the.
amit choudhary: Recent data. Okay, data is recent.
amit choudhary: So, again, that's all is coming in that final verdict. Now, even… even in this one, so what we were saying is, for given MAC, I mean, what we understood before, you look at all the total, value, and then you compare it against 65%.
amit choudhary: Right? So, for MAC1, we would have compared against 65%, and that would have come lesser than 65%. That's where MAC1 is read, correct?
Enqurious 4: Oh…
Enqurious 4: So, the logic was, for each skill in the IDN sheet they are given, they are given, for a data scientist one, what should be the expected MAC level.
amit choudhary: So the.
Enqurious 4: expected MAC level for SQL for a data scientist 1 should be Mach 2. So, since the person has a score, like, achieved MAC 1, it is less than MAC 2, so it becomes red.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Enqurious 4: how it's being compared with the expected math, and aha.
amit choudhary: Okay, then let's not look at the color, because the way we look at the previous person at Aichi Khosh, when we were looking at her work, we looked at each of the Mac.
amit choudhary: which came out, and MAC level, we are comparing against 65%, and against that 65%, if it was qualifying or not, we were, giving them as what? Mandar, what was it? Was 65%, say, compare Kalkejav.
amit choudhary: You will pay?
Enqurious 1: Yeah, I'll break it down. So, there are two parts. One part is Jahapi, we are using at 65-hour logic. That is for calculating the final math level of our learner in a particular skill.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Enqurious 1: Okay, that previously equal pricing or anything?
amit choudhary: So, yay wala, 65% say compare karke, we are… for that Mac, we are saying ready or not ready, correct?
amit choudhary: That table…
Enqurious 1: That role, or that role, we are saying?
amit choudhary: Aniri, hold on. That sheet was there, no, just make a,
amit choudhary: we had for each Mac, we had… we were saying, okay, for that Mac 1, this person is ready, and then for Mac 2. Mac level, not ready, not ready, we had that.
Enqurious 1: Huh, yeah, yeah, fair.
Enqurious 1: From that sheet, the outcome was the person is only ready for MAC-level work.
Enqurious 1: And that is what is translated into the current sheet where you saw map 1 in red.
amit choudhary: Correct, correct, exactly.
Enqurious 1: Good.
amit choudhary: Okay, so it's the outcome of that…
amit choudhary: Yeah. So you said, so the outcome which came out of that logic was that this person, person's Mac is MAC1, and the person is not ready.
Enqurious 1: Yeah, the person is not ready. Why? Because the expected MAC for role was MAC 2.
amit choudhary: Aha, so let's… let's implement that Novo concept, pick up that person, which was that person for which we were doing.
Enqurious 4: to.
amit choudhary: Let's go to Shivan, no? Let's filter Shivam's data, no? Email me, I have to filter karoo.
amit choudhary: Shivam, okay? So, for Shivam, yeah, paste it. So, there are two back ones.
amit choudhary: There are two map ones.
amit choudhary: And one of them equaled, and basically, basically, here is a… there's a population, this one, under population problem also, is that 50% Wala case.
amit choudhary: Right? This person is… I see.
Divyanshi Sharan: done the evaluation for this one, so, I wanted to say something. For MAC 1, there were only 2 skills, and for MAC 2, there were multiple skills, and that is why he's getting 80%, but this person has not cleared MAC 1. They just scored 50%, and in the MAC 2, he's scoring everything well.
amit choudhary: Anyway…
Divyanshi Sharan: Setting a Mac one here.
amit choudhary: I know, I know, I know, that's what. So MAC 1 is coming 50%, which is less than 65%, hence not ready. MAC 2, it is… this person is achieving 100%, hence it is ready. So, the status is that MAC1, this person, MAC1, not ready, and MAC 2 ready.
amit choudhary: That's how… that's how it is… that's how it is coming up.
amit choudhary: Okay.
amit choudhary: And then, we are looking at that, and then our logic ultimately is saying that, based on something something, we are saying, is for MAC1 Karo, or is for not ready colo. Woke Sayara, woh batau.
amit choudhary: So, we are at a stage where MAC 1 is not ready, and MAC2 is ready. From here, how are we coming to MAC 1 and not ready?
Divyanshi Sharan: So I have this sheet, if I can share my screen once.
amit choudhary: Okay, are you saying that because Mac 1 is a lower skill, and then lower level, you are not ready? So, overall, you're not ready? Is that the logic you're…
Divyanshi Sharan: No, sir, overall, he's getting a MAC 1 only, he's not getting not ready at all. He's getting MAC 1 only in SQL, just that, he was not able to score well in Mach 1, but MAC to me, he was getting some scores, but if he's getting… he's getting nothing in Mach 1, and he's getting something in MAC 2, I think full in Mach 2, then it is not fair for others who, again, what Mansi just said, that, okay, if he's not able to score well.
Divyanshi Sharan: here. In that case, Niche Wala Mac is what I'm giving for this person.
Divyanshi Sharan: MAC1 is getting full, but MAC1 me is not getting so much. But Kyoki, agar smhronom mein hota toh, we could have given him MAC 2. But he was not getting enough in Mach 1, that is why I gave him a lower one, the MAC1 score.
amit choudhary: Again, there is a huge amount of subjectivity in our outcomes. We are… we are talking about words like fair, right, which is mathematically difficult to kind of say. So, again, as I said, the culprit is coming down to this layer of
amit choudhary: Logic, that conversion of
amit choudhary: all these data points converting to that one MAC value and the label. You're ready, you're not ready, okay? And it's a big decision. It's… it's something which a formula cannot justify, right? It's a big decision. We are simply labeling a person, boss, you're ready or not ready.
amit choudhary: So… There is a pro… there is… there are methods, there have been a lot of…
amit choudhary: what do you say? Subjectivity in this calculation. We have tried, we have thought, we have tried to come up with different, different outcomes.
amit choudhary: But then there are differences because of people having different… our team internally having different, different interpretations of the calculation, which is leading to some calculation.
amit choudhary: Again, inconsistency in the calculation itself to come up with the outcome.
amit choudhary: So, which is all leading to these kind of…
amit choudhary: And when we're looking at the final report.
amit choudhary: We are having this map conversion logic, and then we have the skill score also there.
amit choudhary: So, skill score is one value, which is numeric, continuous value, while MAC is a level.
amit choudhary: So we are sort of mixing two things.
amit choudhary: We are saying expected versus actual, but then we're also looking for a score.
amit choudhary: What does that mean? If you are at level 3, if you're expected at level 3, and you are just at level 1, and your score is 50%,
amit choudhary: So, you are not at level 1, because for every level, minimum criteria is 65%. So, you're not even at level 1.
amit choudhary: Think about it, that you're level 1, you underqualified, you got 50%. Level 2, you got 90%.
amit choudhary: Right? So, if you are qualified at level 2, but not qualified at level 1, what should be your final outcome? Should we say that, no, no, no, you haven't qualified, you're the lower one itself.
amit choudhary: And hence, the lower one is going to be pulling your… because one, it is a lower level skill, and second, you're scored low. So, you should be penalized, and you should be brought down.
amit choudhary: If the lower… because it's expected that you should know everything about this level, and then only you are graduating to next one. So without, scoring well in Class 2, how can… how did you go to Class 3?
amit choudhary: Right? And that's why in schooling system, you… if you fail, you are held back there, and you do… you're not moving up there.
amit choudhary: And because the way the skills are distributed across the content, it may end up that a simple question I missed out, but a question which was at a difficult level, I kind of ended up
amit choudhary: Solving it, right? But then the interpretation is what? If we say, or if we say that higher level Bhagara check, yeah, the lower level ko, forget about the lower level. Assume ki, lower level aki achak, yeah, yoga. So we just look at the max. Max peak yatha.
amit choudhary: Max scale… max, if you have 3 max, look at the max max. Out of expectation. Expectation may pass. I have 5 max taken.
amit choudhary: The expectation was MAC3, so forget MAC 4-5. And when… if expectation was MAC3, and then you'd qualify, didn't qualify, 1, 2, but 3, you qualified. I'll just go with 3. 3 may you qualified, so done.
amit choudhary: Simple logic. So, in that case, you'll either be at that MAC, or you'll be at lower MAC. Everybody accepts it, because it's hierarchy, it's a rank order data. So, you're expected to do well at lower levels, and then move up.
amit choudhary: Okay.
amit choudhary: I'll just hold on.
amit choudhary: Devanchi, I do still have questions? And then I see InCURIES4.
Enqurious 4: Yeah, so sir, I have a theory here. So, maybe I think this confusion is caused because of introducing the skills course things, because earlier what we were sharing was a skin score sheet individually, and this match sheet individually.
Enqurious 4: So, max sheet was the one who was, like, which was the main sheet, which was evaluating if a person is ready or not ready, or, like, whatever we divided the feedback into, strengths and…
Enqurious 4: areas of opportunity. So, that was because the… so now, why? Because we have also introduced skills scores, which is the sum of all the skills across all the skills, which is MAC 1, MAC 2, MAC 3.
Enqurious 4: So, the logic, again, which was, okay, we'll compare each individual skill MAC level with the expected MAC. If all of them passes, ready. If even one fails, not ready.
Enqurious 4: So, now, because we have also introduced skills code to agar, if we are summing up all the skills codes for all the Macs, it'll definitely be more, right? So, $65%, while our logic will fail somewhere.
Enqurious 4: Either it should be, if it has to be SkinSource as well, it should be distributed across all the MAC levels. In MAC1, skin score was this. In macro, skin score was this.
amit choudhary: No, and…
amit choudhary: I'm thinking about it because, see, there are two kinds of data involved. One is rank order data, and second is continuous data, or ratio data. Think about how… think about, in cricket, how NRR gets calculated, net run rate.
amit choudhary: Right? Two teams can be at the same level. Like, I've also scored 12, that team has also scored 12. Then how do you kind of resolve this contention?
amit choudhary: You then look at the house speed and net run rate, right, against each other, and the one which has higher net run rate basically qualifies.
amit choudhary: Correct. So, we have max, so if, say, suppose you have got to… and then, how do I say that, okay, we have max, and then we have a skill score, and for every max, we get a…
amit choudhary: percentage. It's a percentage value. That Mach 1%, it's like your performance in a given Mac. Mach 1.
Enqurious 4: Huh.
amit choudhary: Yours is 90%, which means you did really well in Map 1 skills.
amit choudhary: And in MAC 2, if you're at 45%, you didn't do well in that, because there were a lot of… either there were a lot of skills which you missed out, or you tried but did not get it right.
amit choudhary: Right? So, that skill score is basically saying, for that max level, whatever was the expected skills, out of that, this is what your completion or achievement is. It's like, out of 100 rupees, I have achieved… I have earned 75 rupees.
amit choudhary: It's like that, correct?
amit choudhary: Right? And then, ultimately, for every person, and there is also this under-representation of the skills at play, because that MAC1 adjusts two skills, you are either at 50% or at 100%, you are either in or out.
amit choudhary: Right? So, should it be… by design, we should be getting at to, say, 5? If I say 5 skills, then you have 20%, 40%, 60%, 80%, 100%.
amit choudhary: Right? So, that also matters. So, one, we are saying that completion, how do we know that for a given Mac, how was the… was it a healthy outcome? That person did well amongst all the… and second is the representation. By design.
amit choudhary: These skills need to be underrepresented. MAC 1, for this program, only few skills are needed, so if this person doesn't do well at MAC 1,
amit choudhary: It's… it has… it anyways has low weightage, so low voltage should anyways be pulled out. It should be… it should not impact… low weightage things should not impact the final outcomes.
amit choudhary: Okay? So, there are multiple things here, and believe me, it's a… it's a real good problem. It's a good problem which we think, right, Ray, what is a real problem we should solve? This is a real… it's a burning problem which is affecting us.
amit choudhary: And the point is not that, there is no, what do you say, maybe you guys have taken some unwanted pressure that we need to somehow come up with the logic. No.
amit choudhary: Describe the problem better, come up with possible outcomes, put it in front of customer, wear your consulting hat, wear your analytical consulting hat. It's an analytical… we keep looking out for problems, right? It's right there, sitting in front of us for months.
amit choudhary: It's an analytics problem.
amit choudhary: Right? Why couldn't we get together and discuss it, look at the numbers, vet it.
amit choudhary: And they can be people who can wear different hats. Mansi can actually look at it and start playing the role of the end customer, because she has worked so much, she understands
amit choudhary: how the end customer looks at, I can do that part, I can look at these reports, and I can find out these issues, because I'm really understanding what is the pain point, what the customer is looking for. So the more we understand the customer, these are the people who can do a good job, but then
amit choudhary: then how is that converting to the logic, and then it is getting down and down and down? So, most of the places we are right, but I think this…
amit choudhary: This level where we are finally coming down to labeling them with something is… there is a discrepancy, and
amit choudhary: Before coming up with the logic, we need to come up with what should we expect here?
amit choudhary: Right? Every person, I get the max, which are levels.
amit choudhary: I have an information about an expected Mac.
amit choudhary: I can come up with an actual Mac.
amit choudhary: For every level. So if it is lesser than expected, what do we say? Do we should just report it?
amit choudhary: Then, after, if it is less or equal, right, it will either be at level 3 or 2 or 1. Then how do I take this forward? There is a skill score. How do we use that skill score? Should I use it together? So, this level, this Mac.
amit choudhary: score is less. Achieved MAC 2, but because, you know, for every MAC we have kept, also kept some benchmarks, let's say 65%. So you have achieved MAC 2 or not.
amit choudhary: We are describing by saying that for that MAC 2, did you at least achieve 65%? If you… if not, I would not consider you to be ready for MAC 2.
amit choudhary: The same person, MAC1, achieved 45%.
amit choudhary: And then achieved… did MAC 2, achieved 65%. So you did not achieve the required, qualification for MAC1, and then you also did not EZ Case. But then, you know, you did not do anything… you did not achieve for MAC1, but you achieved for MACDO. What do we say?
amit choudhary: Should we gravitate towards McDon? Should we penalize? Because it's important that you first complete… it's like, you qualify, do your Class 2 properly before going to Class 3, right? You may be having done it out of luck. So I will pull you down and say, no boss.
amit choudhary: MAC 1 Karna importante. Then only I can tell you, take you to MAC 2. Or we say.
amit choudhary: Other… exactly other logic. Map 2, you're all… this person is already demonstrating higher order skills, so why do I even care if this person… maybe this person would have missed out, but that's exactly where the subjectivity comes into picture. Maybe it's not fair
amit choudhary: Or do this, do that.
amit choudhary: Computer doesn't understand fairness, right? They'll understand probability score, 0.8. If you have to keep it fair, 0.5 probability. Weightage is…
amit choudhary: It's a classic analytical problem.
amit choudhary: So, all this thing, whatever we have captured, this becomes our context. We take that, pick… the idea is we should come up with a logic.
amit choudhary: Which, we tried with data because we have tons of data.
amit choudhary: And it's an opportunity to kind of wear the consulting hat and say, okay, you tell what you want. Rather than we say, here are these different approaches.
amit choudhary: Which could be taken, and we have taken that approach before, and it has always been a hard problem.
amit choudhary: But these are some approaches, and this is what our experience says. We can fix it, but we need to come up to a common language.
amit choudhary: This is what we propose, and we have tried out with the data. We have tested with many different cases, different, different levels, different roles, all those things we have tested.
amit choudhary: And this is what the outcomes come into picture.
amit choudhary: Our recommendation is do not look at skill score and these levels together.
amit choudhary: Or my recommendation is that to look them together.
amit choudhary: That's where you actually act like a consultant, the L&D consultant who's… and if I talk in AI terms, that's what agents are expected to do.
amit choudhary: Right, we own the problem, figure out different approaches, try things out, come up with outcomes, come up with proof.
amit choudhary: show, discuss. You involve them, no? It's not that, okay, I tell you I want, and you give this. The problem is yours. And in the end, L&D, you're the one who's owning it. You become red-faced if somebody says that, hey, this is… this looks odd.
amit choudhary: Right? I don't trust this. So they are feeling the heat.
amit choudhary: And instead of… we say, okay, we are the ones to be the blame, there's no blame we are saying, there's no blame game going on. What is needed is that we need to take the lead.
amit choudhary: We need to make them aware with the problem, make them aware how difficult this is. Sankal doesn't understand how difficult this, or what are the ambiguities in this one.
amit choudhary: Because it never got discussed. Some highlight is not happening, and that highlight happened to somebody like Shashank, who's… was just doing exactly like what us. He was just doing his job. Okay, I need to get this report done, prepared.
amit choudhary: But in the end, when it goes to Sankalp and beyond, however it goes… spreads out in the org, it becomes a human decision. You are not ready, you're ready. And if for 3 times you're not ready, you're out of the company. The person gets thrown out of the company.
amit choudhary: It's, you know, impacting a human…
amit choudhary: a human's outcome. Maybe this decision is impacting that person, whether this person will get that increment in his monthly salary or not.
amit choudhary: They… he… I… when I go to Mathku, I am looking for a suit or something, which Asapush dresses, so that people don't recognize me. Yeah, yeah.
amit choudhary: Sarah Palai.
amit choudhary: DK. So, it's a… it's an excellent opportunity, but I think it needs to be…
amit choudhary: Taken up at utmost… so, there is all three here. There's a people problem, there's a process problem, there is a technology problem. How do you solve problem?
amit choudhary: You've solved problem first by owning it.
amit choudhary: Somebody has to own it. Sunil, own it. Sunil, own… you own it, which doesn't mean everybody will get sidewuvi metana. Everybody went back to that person, so… So, one person, there has to be somebody, one person, owning it, but then we understand the flow, we know what are the different choke points.
amit choudhary: And we saw that there's a multiple thing coming out. There are so many sheets happening, there's manual…
amit choudhary: data movement happenings and copy-paste happening. Even in the calculation of logic, there are 3 different interpretations available.
amit choudhary: Right? There's something which happened olden times, different ways happening, so even… you know about this data drift on us? This is our logic drift is happening. Logic is drifting. So old data was done, calculated different way, new data is calculated different way, so all those things are issues, and that's where you, are seeing a typical data analytics project, where
amit choudhary: Because there is one, there is a lot of dependency, there is a process problem, there's a lot of manual steps, still there in this entire process.
amit choudhary: There is some logic which is somehow evolved based on… because we wanted to just get it solved.
amit choudhary: But, deep thinking did not happen with the… how this impacts the outcome.
amit choudhary: the client should have been more deeply involved in this process. They'll be happy to be involved. They'll be happy to be… they'd be happy to see that somebody's caring about this problem so deeply, like us, who's sitting through and talking about this for every event possibilities where this could go wrong.
amit choudhary: Right? Each one of us are showing concern. We are concerned about that this, yes, this impacts somebody's outcome, but
amit choudhary: When this goes out to somebody, This should not be obvious.
amit choudhary: issues which can be caught up just by common sense. Oh, yeh hai legend score to bataroki, ye not ready, legend iska score 93%. That is obvious.
Sunil Kumar: Thanks.
amit choudhary: Somebody who doesn't even understand anything will simply raise it here yeto. There's something bogus going on.
amit choudhary: So… Okay, Sunil, are there, again, more, issues, different kind of issues.
Sunil Kumar: Thanks.
amit choudhary: The system.
Sunil Kumar: These are a couple of things that, that we have found out doing the testing, and I was also a little bit clueless, how the data was populating, so I thought to, present it in front of mentors. So this is one thing. Another piece of,
Sunil Kumar: issue is, I discussed with Chetan, I discussed with Chetan, so he,
Sunil Kumar: even in the morning, although the testing was completed, it was good to go from somewhere engine side, but in the morning, when I tried to open the CP data, the
Sunil Kumar: I tried to check the scores for CP, so there were a couple of fill that was blank.
Sunil Kumar: There were a couple of fields that was blank. I tried to check with Chetan, so why this is the issue. Then he mentioned that as he adds the data, CP was a new requirement, so he has added the CP data in the dashboard. So, previous couple of things got brick.
Sunil Kumar: So there was a leakage in the backend. So, finally, in the afternoon, he fixed all those issues. So, going forward, going forward, as we add more data on this dashboard, maybe next month, there's a challenger.
Sunil Kumar: we'll be adding the challenger data on this particular dashboard, then I'm not sure, there may be some kind of, data leakage.
amit choudhary: So I'll hold on to that. When you say, Chetan, adding data.
amit choudhary: What do you do, Chetan, here? What data you add, where do you add? Are you copy-pasting into some sheet?
Chethan: Also, I'm uploading the CSV directly.
amit choudhary: I can't hear you clearly.
Chethan: I can upload the CSVs directly into the database, and I will use it.
amit choudhary: You upload this CSV, where do you fetch the CSV from? This is the Skills Course CSV, is it?
Sunil Kumar: Yes, the one which we have shared with the client, the same sheet we used to share with the Chitan, yep.
amit choudhary: Okay, so Chetan uploads that sheet here.
amit choudhary: How frequently you upload, Chetan?
Sunil Kumar: every week.
amit choudhary: Every week, once you upload.
Sunil Kumar: Huh, every week, yeah.
amit choudhary: And,
amit choudhary: And this skills… this skill score sheet, why are you uploading here and not fetching it from the Analytics DB? It is already there in the Analytics DB, right?
Chethan: No, it does not consist of the MAC level bundle.
amit choudhary: Oh, MAC levels are all here.
Chethan: Interesting.
amit choudhary: Mmm…
Chethan: For the proficient.
amit choudhary: Why isn't it possible, why isn't it possible that you do all those MAC calculations in Metabase? There are calculations you can do in Metabase, right?
amit choudhary: Or you, basically, you write SQL only, so you pull SQL, you pull the data from the analytics DB, and then on top of it, all the Mac calculation, you do it in SQL itself.
Chethan: third person, again.
Chethan: The logic, I think I was not knowing exactly.
amit choudhary: I'm not able to clearly hear you, Chaitan. Chaitan, if you're in office, somebody else is there? Where are you?
Chethan: No, I have my phone.
amit choudhary: Okay, but your voice is not very clear.
Chethan: I'm out of the normal.
Sunil Kumar: It is audible, but his voice is breaking, something.
Chethan: No.
amit choudhary: Okay, go ahead, Rai.
Chethan: Yeah, I was not knowing the logic exactly how the math levels and proficiency levels are calculated. I will connect with the mentors, and I will do it.
Chethan: We'll do it using SQL queries.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
amit choudhary: No, what I'm saying is… this sheet… Okay.
amit choudhary: Can you show what does the sheet look like? When you upload this sheet? Where do you… you download it from some browser somewhere?
Chethan: Yeah, we get it from the spreadsheet, which they are meeting the…
amit choudhary: That Google spreadsheet.
amit choudhary: That spreadsheet you download, and when you are downloading it, Is it possible that…
amit choudhary: You download it, and
amit choudhary: During that time, somebody might be updating that sheet, because that sheet is manually updated, no?
Chethan: Once the evaluation is done normally, Sunilbro will inform me, and I will download it later.
amit choudhary: This is the sheet you upload.
Chethan: Yeah.
amit choudhary: Okay.
amit choudhary: Okay, yeah, so again, I'm coming down to that if we have the…
amit choudhary: Our base data is that skill tag level.
amit choudhary: entries which we get. That is the most granular, the skills course, right?
amit choudhary: That's the data… so this data is coming from database, correct? Or it is coming again from CSV?
Chethan: This is also from CSP, because last two rows, I was not sure about how we are getting this data.
amit choudhary: Okay.
amit choudhary: So, this data comes from CSV. Again, the CSVs which… the sheets which we're seeing, they're, again, that sheet which you download, then you upload here.
amit choudhary: And then, there's other sheet also, which is at skill score level, you download and upload.
amit choudhary: And then you use these as your sources of data.
amit choudhary: To kind of prepare your… our reports, correct? Or dashboards?
amit choudhary: So it's not happening. The database is not… the analytics database is not involved.
amit choudhary: I mean, not involved here. Analytics data, I think, the, Google App Script which is running, I think that is connecting to the…
amit choudhary: analytics DB and pulling the data, is it?
amit choudhary: This entire logic, whatever the logic is there, it is easily doable in a single SQL query, which reads the data from the Analytics DB directly.
amit choudhary: does calculated columns, maybe CTEs on top of it, and prepares that final outcome. Entire logic remains at single place. You cut down so much of your manual work. The more copy, download, upload, and this copy-paste thing happening.
amit choudhary: Always it is the challenge, so…
amit choudhary: I'm saying, if the rules are clear, all I need is the skills score sheet to calculate everything.
amit choudhary: Why should somebody even update that MAC values?
amit choudhary: As a question?
Chethan: These math course and qualitative feedback are done manually by the mentors.
Chethan: So, this has to be updated, and…
amit choudhary: They do manually, I know, they do manually, but the logic is understood, no?
amit choudhary: I'm saying that this,
amit choudhary: what comes to… okay, so now coming down to the point when this categorization of SQL, because what we get in our data is individual tags. So when it groups to SQL, this categorization is not available in our
amit choudhary: But then, I could also create a table of this mapping, and I could again fetch… point is.
amit choudhary: Point is that, there is, again, a lot of manual work happening, download, upload, and there are, like, multiple sheets. One is the core skill score sheet. That skill score sheet is also from Google Sheet through Apps Script. It is fetching from the same database.
amit choudhary: And then you're downloading that same data, and uploading that same data in Metabase, and then you're uploading another sheet, which is this one which you are showing.
amit choudhary: Which is, again, manually prepared, which is no problem.
amit choudhary: And then you consume that to, to basically… and then the, the…
amit choudhary: Once you consume that, how about that,
amit choudhary: Ready, not ready. That logic is also a part of that sheet itself.
Chethan: Yeah, that is part of consolidated heat.
amit choudhary: Okay, okay, that is all… that's already part of the consolidated sheet, so okay, okay, that's one that, So, in this one, if I see, which is the final… final verdict?
amit choudhary: So, when we are saying, every category level, we have MAC 1, MAC 2, Mach 3, all this thing, how about that final, final ready, not ready, and final map?
Chethan: Finance not very, depends on the optional technical and, application-level skills. They have given some weighting.
Chethan: So, it depends upon the skill score. It will calculate the skill scores and give ready or not ready.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Chethan: You're on the gray table.
amit choudhary: Okay, okay, fine, fine, yeah, so Sunil, your concern was that, Your concerns was?
Sunil Kumar: My concern is that whenever Chetan is uploading any kind of data, I mean, previous week he has uploaded data with respect to CP, so there were few, data pieces that was missing in the report.
Sunil Kumar: So the same thing I communicated with Chaitan, although it was tested on Monday itself, but Chetan told that when we add, update the things in the backend, so there is some kind of data leakage.
amit choudhary: Okay, so again, huh, so coming down to this thesis, what is this…
amit choudhary: data leakage, I didn't understand how it is coming in.
amit choudhary: Where it is coming in.
Sunil Kumar: So, as of now, I've reported to Chetan. Yep, Chetan.
Sunil Kumar: So…
Chethan: what we were doing before was, we were only showing the learner for ESS and, that.
Chethan: We were adding only those skills, and I wanted to add the new two CSVs, which is CP, tenure, and also the skills code for the CP.
Chethan: When I need to add the max port for this.
Chethan: So, I wanted to make those changes now, so I took 2 days' time, and, I didn't… I did it.
amit choudhary: can't hear you, yeah, I can't, can't… this is such an important thing, but can't hear you only properly.
amit choudhary: Let's… let's do this in tomorrow's office if it is an audio problem, because whatever you're trying to say, I'm not getting it properly.
amit choudhary: Of… Hold on, then. Okay.
Sunil Kumar: Can you… book.
amit choudhary: Try to rejoin, see if you can rejoin, because… or say, join from mobile, keep your laptop on mute, do something.
Chethan: I'm a very good news, huh?
amit choudhary: Perfect, very good. Where was this voice?
Chethan: Yes, I'm.
amit choudhary: Yeah, quite.
Chethan: you know, what was happening was, I was showing only ESS and, DAC,
Chethan: a skills course before, in the learner report.
Chethan: But we wanted to add CT, which was newly added last week, so I took one day time, and I added those, and
Chethan: Azure, GCP, and AWS for ES and DAC was in the same one skill, considered as one skill, like Cloud.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Chethan: But now, we… I wanted to show it as 3, what, rows.
Chethan: But it was not happening before, and the MAC levels were missing.
Chethan: That thing I, means updated today. So, it was internally and didn't went to client.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Chethan: That was only the things.
amit choudhary: Again, I'm not able to understand this problem properly. Okay.
Sunil Kumar: So, in ESS, in ESS service line, we have a single skills called Cloud.
Sunil Kumar: Okay. And he has updated the data, and it was very much proper. Everything was populating on the screen very properly.
amit choudhary: Where is… where is cloud? I can see GCP, Azure.
Sunil Kumar: Huh, but when he, when he start uploading the data with respect to, CP, custom product.
amit choudhary: So.
Sunil Kumar: custom products, we have three different cloud skills. Some may opt for GCP, some may opt for Azure, some may opt for AWS.
amit choudhary: Okay.
Sunil Kumar: So, if… if a participant, I think there's… Avinash Yadav, he has opt for Azure. He has opted Azure, and other two are not available.
amit choudhary: But we…
Sunil Kumar: Can we incorporate this data, in the dashboard?
Sunil Kumar: In the dashboard, so with the ESS, with the ESS,
Sunil Kumar: there was a data leakage. I mean, the data was missing for the cloud.
amit choudhary: hmm.
Sunil Kumar: So, he fixed the issue in the afternoon, but…
amit choudhary: How… how did you fix the issue? Like, when you say fix the issue, what did you do?
Chethan: Yeah, I wanted to add, mince.
Chethan: Azure and, here you can see I am showing AWS Azure GCP as Cloud.
Chethan: This is not the same case for, CP?
Chethan: Here, for CP, we wanted to show Azure GCP separately.
amit choudhary: Hold on, are you pulling all the data together, the CP data, the ESS data, every data together?
Chethan: they need only one dashboard, and they don't need, where is that one dashboard?
amit choudhary: Where is that one dashboard?
Chethan: This is the one dashboard, so… Okay, so just…
amit choudhary: No, point is that, the definitions, if the definitions are different across ESS, CP, we could have given those as tabs, right? We have options… remember you did for Trident, or which one?
Chethan: learn it.
amit choudhary: It's for learners.
Chethan: Yeah, the… Okay, okay.
amit choudhary: But this learner, at a time, will belong to either CP or ESS or
amit choudhary: DAC, it will be just one of… one of them, right? So if this person… for this person belongs to CP,
amit choudhary: Then, I should be seeing one of the three, GCP, Azure, or AWS.
Chethan: Yeah.
amit choudhary: So, in this case, the GCP and AWS should not even show.
Chethan: Right? It's a…
amit choudhary: So, I mean, first thing is that, what is the right thing to show?
amit choudhary: Right, thing to show is that if this person belonged to ESS, show somebody who belongs to ESS,
amit choudhary: This guy belongs to CP. Show somebody who belongs to ESS.
Chethan: Neilbro, can you say some names?
amit choudhary: Choose randomly, you know, somebody.
amit choudhary: Let's see.
amit choudhary: Yeah, see? ESS. So you have SQL, Python, Spark.
amit choudhary: So, if there was cloud for ESS, the mapping is cloud, correct? That's what we are saying.
amit choudhary: But for CP, the mapping is GCP, AWS, or…
amit choudhary: what do you say? Azure, correct?
amit choudhary: So, if somebody… if I filter, and for Laprit Singh, since it belongs to engineering, I have 3 records. It is showing 3 records. If I'm choosing somebody else, it will be showing 5 records, and those 5 records will be coming.
amit choudhary: As per that person, so we are then clubbing, we are basically clubbing. It's like, your union of ESS data, union, CP data, union, maybe DSS data, something like that.
amit choudhary: Headache? Yeah.
amit choudhary: We are clubbing all of them, because I want to… that this person, I mean, what they are looking at that, I'll just select the name. Whichever group this person belongs to will be showing in the detail, and those skills which are mapped to those
amit choudhary: like ESS or DSC will be showing up, at the bottom, that skill mapping.
amit choudhary: So, which means that this skill mapping, there must be some sheet of skill mapping which is also there, which you are uploading, or you are referring to as a data set, correct?
Chethan: Yes, sir.
amit choudhary: Where is that screen mapping data set?
Chethan: No, the skill mapping, in the sense, the expected map?
amit choudhary: No, no, no, this, for DSE, the scale mapping, it shows as SQL, Power BI, Tableau, Python, Machine Learning, where is that mapped?
Chethan: I think… Yeah, that is from the consolidated sheet itself, so.
amit choudhary: Where is that sheet? Again, show that.
Chethan: Yes.
amit choudhary: So this, again, this, where is… where is that mapping where we say ESS, ESS has these skills mapped? SQL, Power BI, or say… because here it is showing in columns.
amit choudhary: It's showing in columns, so which means that if a service line is ESS, are we saying the columns will change?
Chethan: Yes, sir, it will change.
amit choudhary: okay?
amit choudhary: Okay, so we are having a separate sheet for DSE, separate sheet for ESS.
Chethan: Also, in ESS, for L1 tenure, it is separate, and for the new joints, it is separate, and for the L2 and L3s, it is separate.
amit choudhary: So, why the data is coming in a sort of a column? These kills…
amit choudhary: Which, like, SQL, Python, Spark should come as rows, no? Not as columns.
amit choudhary: Because then it is a simple filter.
amit choudhary: So this is, this is, actually a difficult format, and it's like we have pivoted them.
amit choudhary: Why we have pivoted? Because we wanted one entry per person.
amit choudhary: We have kept all the data in a single row.
amit choudhary: If it was… it is a wide format. Instead, if it was long format, then the name would repeat as many times as there are mapped skills.
amit choudhary: So, when we say it is different, engineering, it is different, where is that mapping? For engineering, these are the skills. For T1 tenure, these are the skills for, whatever. So, these are the skills which do not exist in our database, so there must be some mapping of that happening, right? There must be some Excel sheet or somewhere.
Chethan: Yeah, the mapping is done in the SQL query itself, so…
amit choudhary: So where is that?
amit choudhary: And what is the basis of that mapping logic? Where is that logic inspired from?
amit choudhary: Must be somebody would have given some logic somewhere, right?
amit choudhary: They would write and give.
Chethan: No, I'm, taking it as ESS if the learner is from ESS, normal in the sense, L2 and L3, these are the skills, and these are the columns, sorry, rows we need to show in the skill mapping.
amit choudhary: Where are those mappings? So, for you saying for ESS, these are the skills, like SQL, Python, where is this coming from? How do you know that you have to map SQL and Python?
Chethan: That is coming from the seat itself, so consolidated sheet, we have the…
Chethan: Skill set at the top.
amit choudhary: Oh, okay, so that… your reference is that sheet, so others…
amit choudhary: how is that data is ending up in that sheet? For… Chaitan, this is the source of truth, but for ESS, it is SQL, EDA plus stat, machine learning. This is not our categorization, no, this seems to be coming from the customer. Some… there is a mapping between ours and customer thing. How is this coming up?
amit choudhary: Yeko Sara.
amit choudhary: Sunil, others?
Sunil Kumar: It's the… Yes, so this is the format in which we share our data, our report to the client.
amit choudhary: So when we say SQL MAC1, yakase, how is that coming up? SQLAC1, somebody's filling, right? Entry, manually, somebody's putting up MAC1 there, correct?
Sunil Kumar: Yes.
amit choudhary: So, what you're mapping, how is that person knowing SQL mapping? Go back to that.
amit choudhary: Then go to that spreadsheet over your Google Sheets tab.
amit choudhary: If not shaken somebody else.
amit choudhary: Sunil, you do it, or whoever.
Sunil Kumar: Ships.
amit choudhary: Acha, yah, when we are here. So, this SQL, column F1, SQL, right?
amit choudhary: this SQL
amit choudhary: we are saying map 1, so this SQL means this… under this SQL, there will be a lot of our skill tag that mapping would be happening from our skill tags to this SQL, right?
Sunil Kumar: Yes.
amit choudhary: How… where is that happening? There must be some transformation table, right? Some mapping table or something. Where is that?
Sunil Kumar: One minute. Chitan, can you stop sharing your screen?
Sunil Kumar: Let me share.
Sunil Kumar: I hope this demo is shown good stuff.
Sunil Kumar: So, the, this is the…
Sunil Kumar: skill score sheet that mentor used to populate. This is the Mac readiness, which…
Sunil Kumar: MAC readiness, they have created a pivot table, something like that. Then there's a MAC qualification, MAC qualification sheet. So, for this learner, I mean, this is with respect to SQL, the MAC qualification is 4.
amit choudhary: What I saw was Hamara jo tags hai, CTE, filter, wo sub hai, but wahan pe column di ka, SQL.
amit choudhary: that column, SQL, how do we know, gee, what are the things which are mapped to SQL?
amit choudhary: So, again, this… whoever would have evaluated that, please respond.
amit choudhary: that, from here, then you are going and filling some sheet, right? And that there is a column of SQL, and then you are saying MAC1. So how do we know these are all the skills which are mapped to that SQL?
Enqurious 1: Marseille, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think somewhere is doing this. He has access to all of the sheets, and he knows which is the final sheet where he can find all the SQL-related math levels, which is the sheet where he can find all the Python-related math levels.
Sunil Kumar: How's all…
Enqurious 1: Oh.
Sunil Kumar: This is the sheet.
Enqurious 1: Yes, exactly. So, whatever you see in map qualification, you have it, this is the final map level for a particular application. Yes.
amit choudhary: So, what I see is in column A, we have our skill tags.
amit choudhary: So…
Enqurious 1: What?
amit choudhary: So these, these skill tags from 2 to 14.
amit choudhary: These, these 11 skill tags, they map to SQL.
Sunil Kumar: Yes.
Enqurious 1: Good evening.
amit choudhary: Where is that mapping?
amit choudhary: Is it only in our heads?
amit choudhary: That, okay, these are the ones which will map to SQL, so somebody does it, and goes there and updates the column of SQL. Is that the thing we are doing there?
Enqurious 1: So, here, this is the mapping that you see in front of you right now. This gives us whatever MAC readiness preparation is, what I do, and then somewhere engine goes and picks up that Mac level from this sheet, and updates in the sheet Jawabata, which is SQL, under SQL.
amit choudhary: So, Samiranjan, please answer this. How are you going from here to that sheet?
Enqurious 1: I don't think he's in this meeting because he had an IIT, he dropped off.
amit choudhary: B.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Sunil Kumar: So, Mandar, I think this particular sheet is populated by the mentor itself, no?
Enqurious 1: Yeah, yeah, I do that.
Sunil Kumar: And I think Salman mentioned what he used to do, if he will come to this… first of all, he will populate the skills score sheet on the… for the client, and he will populate the MAC sheet. So he will come to this sheet, and for this particular participant, he will simply pick the Mac level. He'll simply pick the Mac level, and he will go to, let me…
Sunil Kumar: Just one second.
Sunil Kumar: We'll go to Mac Sheets.
amit choudhary: Sunil laptop browser rhodega.
Sunil Kumar: Yes, he will go to MagSheet, and he will… Mentioned?
amit choudhary: Exactly. This SQL, F1, okay? SQL, is, mapped to those skills, those skills tha, Marajo skills tha, and then when we say Power BI Tableau, where is that? Let's say Power BI Tableau.
Sunil Kumar: But they can move.
Sunil Kumar: Yes, so I'll open the Power BI tableau sheet. So, on the Power BI tableau sheet, there will be a Mac level, there will be a set of skills, and with that particular skills, there will be a Mac level.
amit choudhary: Group by aggregate MAC2, this is something which is the expected. So, in group by aggregate, you should be at Mach 2. Is that the what expectation is what it is saying?
Enqurious 1: Most of.
amit choudhary: Qualification sheets lah. Sheet number 4.
Enqurious 1: Math Core Standards is a math level 2 skill.
amit choudhary: Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Enqurious 1: Okay, so this is helping us in that 1-0…
amit choudhary: Hey, my.
Enqurious 1: 65… 65% on it.
amit choudhary: Haha-ha. So, see, this is… this is… I'm sharing my screen, this is what I'm… I'm,
amit choudhary: trying to… Communicate.
amit choudhary: Unsimple.
amit choudhary: So this is what I'm trying to communicate. So we have our skill tag.
amit choudhary: So, suppose CTE… join… Filter…
amit choudhary: And then, we have the, MAC mapping.
amit choudhary: that according to MATCO rules, this falls on MAC 1, this falls on MAC
amit choudhary: to this faults on MAC 1, okay?
amit choudhary: And then… All the scores and calculations when we do, these… Are mapped to…
amit choudhary: Which is the column, SQL, SQL, SQL.
amit choudhary: Then we have, say, whatever. We have something else, which, gets mapped to Python.
amit choudhary: bite, and… Right, then… Right?
amit choudhary: So this basically is trans… transforming to this one, and then it is being shown as column SQL,
amit choudhary: Python, whatever, ML, EDA, everything. So this is a group which the mapping to, this is somehow defined. So is… this would have come from customer only, right? Or is this something that we built?
Enqurious 4: So they gave us this entire… so they gave us a sheet in which we had
Enqurious 4: MAC levels and the skills that were more of descriptions. So, from those descriptions, we retrieve the skill tags which we… which we already have in our system, and which would be suitable for a particular assessment. So, let's say they have the… if you allow me to share my screen once quickly, I'll just show…
amit choudhary: Yeah, so I'm basically interested, understanding, trying to understand this grouping logic, that we… this grouping, is it by assessment, okay, SQL assessment, Python assessment, ML assessment, assessment ke types and group kart, yeah? So, what is wahi word logic? Kahin toh…
Enqurious 4: So, this is now… the first step is, this is the sheet which they gave us. Now, it has, for all the skills, whether it's SQL, Python, etc. So, for DAC, ESSCP, we had the Mac level.
amit choudhary: abundance.
Enqurious 4: advice.
amit choudhary: Hold on, hold on, hold on, Mansi. I think… In this spreadsheet, every tab And signing that column.
amit choudhary: Is that true? Okay, I've seen this, I've seen this.
amit choudhary: And, on reading all this, on reading, for example, that cell C5, you're reading that, and you are trying to approximate, like, map it with our tags.
Enqurious 4: Yes, yes.
amit choudhary: Okay, and we are saying that those tags, when get mapped to MAC1,
amit choudhary: for PSE, right? And some… when I'm, say, for, giving an assessment for… which requires SQL, the reporting finally happens with
amit choudhary: that SQL, which is your sheet, basically. So, customer understands… customer does not understand our tags, because they are too detailed. Customer understands the grouping of those tags into SQL, and that's what floats into your final report.
Enqurious 4: Correct.
amit choudhary: Okay.
Enqurious 4: This is their pay, which we received. From this, we created the, which…
amit choudhary: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Enqurious 4: It happens like this, huh?
amit choudhary: Yeah, yeah, yeah. This was done long, long back. So this, I think this project is already available. So that's what I was coming down to, that, okay. Now, these sheets which you, which, you showed, that, go back to that sheet, this may… what tabs, SQL, Python, what are tabsa?
amit choudhary: Now, when it comes to, say, CP versus ESS, let's take that, okay? So, when we say CP,
amit choudhary: Okay, and for CP, if I look at… if I look at SQL, the mappings could be different.
amit choudhary: to SQL for CP, versus, say, MAC1KLEHI. So, MAC1, if I see column E5,
amit choudhary: Right? Column E is the SQL requirements for CP.
Enqurious 4: Hmm, correct.
amit choudhary: Then, SQL requirements for DSE is in, again, C5.
amit choudhary: Take care.
Enqurious 4: Right.
amit choudhary: So, DAC voila, D5 getting mapped to our skills, and E5 getting mapped to our skills, C5 and E5, would end up at different mapping?
amit choudhary: Or is that.
Enqurious 4: Thank you.
amit choudhary: Or is that mapping fixed?
Enqurious 1: No, Mansha, I'll answer that.
Enqurious 1: So, Amit sir, initially, for now, we'll take in our CP, we'll talk about only DAC and ESS, okay?
Enqurious 1: If you have a look at the skills, there is a 80%, 80-90% overlap.
Enqurious 1: You could see some common things, select from order by upper, lower, right?
amit choudhary: Correct, correct.
Enqurious 1: So what we have done is, we have created one common assessment for both DAC and ESS in SQL, constituting of these 80% of skills which were common.
amit choudhary: Okay.
Enqurious 1: So for DSE and ESS, the MAC mapping for the same.
amit choudhary: We go with the common minimum.
Enqurious 1: And, yes.
amit choudhary: Okay, so the DAC, the basic… so basically, there's no difference in the skills… our skill tagging mapped to SQL for DAC and ESS, they are the same.
Enqurious 1: Yep.
amit choudhary: Okay? Okay, so now when CP got introduced.
amit choudhary: did we follow that same mapping, or then again, this got into a different mapping. So for the SQL for DSC and SQL for ESS, we'll come up with same sales tags, but then will that also happen for SQL for CP?
Enqurious 1: Yeah, I think Guran will answer.
Enqurious 1: Yes, sir. So, for CP, the requirements was different.
amit choudhary: Hmm.
Enqurious 1: So, it was like SQL was included in the backend itself.
Enqurious 1: So, that's why, along with that, yes.
amit choudhary: So, so… So, the mapping of what I was trying to show.
amit choudhary: What I was trying to show is, our skill tag to Mac, we have that mapping somewhere, but our skill tag to that SQL, or to that… so, I'm just sharing my screen again, Mansi.
Enqurious 4: Chef.
amit choudhary: So, ultimately, it's coming down to, like, this… your track… DAC, DSC, DAC, Okay.
amit choudhary: Since DAC and ESS are the same.
amit choudhary: this is how it comes up. But then, for CP, Suppose something else comes up.
amit choudhary: Which is window.
amit choudhary: Which is MAC 3.
amit choudhary: And map to SQL.
amit choudhary: So the SQL… this mapping, this is the most detailed form of… for a given track.
amit choudhary: A given skill is mapped to a given MAC,
amit choudhary: which ultimately is mapped to SQL, because customer, when finally wants to look at their categorization, is SQL, Python, ML, EDA plus stat, all those things is their categorization. That categorization to our
amit choudhary: Tag, because our tag is getting mapped
amit choudhary: to this one. This is the… this is how the reporting is…
amit choudhary: happening, right? And there… and that is where, I believe, for CP,
amit choudhary: for CP, it came out to be, I think, GCP.
amit choudhary: Okay, GCP, like here.
amit choudhary: And for somebody else, like ESS, It still remained as cloud.
amit choudhary: some skill here, it would be maybe cloud or something would be here. And maybe here some skill would be, and this would be, say, Mac.
amit choudhary: Mac, 4 or Mac 5.
amit choudhary: Okay.
amit choudhary: So, what I was asking was this…
amit choudhary: this mapping. This mapping has to be very clearly available, because it's not… it's just… when you… when, and based on this, if it is available at this, in… in a long format rather than a wide format.
amit choudhary: It is just a question about filtering.
amit choudhary: So, the data which I think, Chetan, you're getting is, you're getting in a pivoted sort of format. Because that's easy for the mentors to update, because you have to update in a single row.
amit choudhary: Mentors will have a problem doing this, because then you have to do it for…
amit choudhary: So it's actually not a problem, it's just a mindset, because we, like doing this, we find it easier somehow, psychologically, than doing this. If the data is captured only in this way, for you, it becomes very easy to… because in the end, for a given, say,
amit choudhary: our mentor, who's coming in, they're coming in and they're just updating that, thing here, right? So,
amit choudhary: this for… I mean, this… and when you are… and since you are saying that you are updating the data, so maybe you are copy-pasting the data from somewhere to somewhere.
amit choudhary: Right? And for ESS, it would be visible, and then for CP, it would get changed, and then in between, somebody tested, and then… so there is a lot of things which are…
amit choudhary: Again, coming along, which is… These are, as I said, there is inefficiency, There is stale data.
amit choudhary: There is evolving logic, This is the best project I could have done.
amit choudhary: Great.
amit choudhary: And, incidentally, every point, there is a scope to improve.
amit choudhary: Every single point.
amit choudhary: What if we could create a single, sort of a internal app to kind of give screen to fill up these configurations, upload these maps, and have a…
amit choudhary: Superbase, we have a free… have a free Superbase database, and then that database, you maintain these tables. It's a simple app, which basically is ensuring that there is a single place from which we upload the data. If the mentor has to upload, mentor clicks on something, a form gets opened up, mentor fills that form.
amit choudhary: approves it or saves it, that data gets saved in the database. And then, since it is a Postgres database, you can run a procedure, you can apply multiple additional logic, complex logic.
amit choudhary: prepare that. From that procedure, you could output it to a sort of a final table. That table you consume in metadata, and then write queries on top of it and consume it.
amit choudhary: That way, you would have a lot of control on data. You could do a lot of data quality checks and a lot of things which you have to… you are forced to do, where there is a system of sheets.
amit choudhary: There is some mappings.
amit choudhary: Multiple, multiple, you could see…
amit choudhary: Sunil's laptop was almost crying, almost dead, because 2,600 tabs were opened in him. He himself was finding it so difficult to go back to those sheets, validate. Testing. Testing, I don't know how horrible the testing would become.
amit choudhary: how many sheets Summer Engine has to go and look at things. It is taxing, it is heavily, cognitively taxing, and nobody wants to do it.
amit choudhary: That's why nobody wants to do it.
amit choudhary: So, it's just that… Taking a detour and saying, let's look at the problem from 40,000 feet.
amit choudhary: jot down the process, find out the places where things are leaking or going bad. Is that a process problem? Is that a person problem? I assumed something, it's a person problem.
amit choudhary: Whether it… you were communicated wrong or not, or that is a different thing, but again, it's related to person, the human problem. Confusion, hallucinating, having old information, I thought it a different way. It's a human part, it's a people problem.
amit choudhary: Process problem. We have this sheet-based approach, Apps script, then blah blah blah blah blah. Because of process, things get… when I'm… when I'm copy-pasting, duplicate entry could happen.
amit choudhary: Right? And since we are scaling, earlier we were doing for pilots, so all these things were fine, but now, as the stakes are rising, the end party who is actually consuming this
amit choudhary: Right? They are looking at it, they started raising questions, and now we're starting to dig down and kind of… now we get exposed as so many things
amit choudhary: Which could be better. We just… we're just kind of holding this, what do you say, this paper card-based house. We're just holding it somehow.
amit choudhary: One more card, and it will just crash.
amit choudhary: Because this is not a scalable solution.
amit choudhary: The scalable solution is actually through a platform, through a product.
amit choudhary: Right? That product will come. Customer wants outcome now.
amit choudhary: Could we improve this entire process end-to-end? And it is doable.
amit choudhary: If you're part of this project, you'll learn more than
amit choudhary: in more than whatever you would have done before. This is what, again, the real-world challenges problem is. That's why companies who are building, solving this data problem, data entry, capturing, modeling, visualization, testing, quality checks.
amit choudhary: report tests, everything. Can we automate it? 200%, we can do it.
amit choudhary: But then, we… trying to solve it.
amit choudhary: than to address the problem, define the problem better. As we grow, some of us will have to take the lead and
amit choudhary: Be more interested in the problem than getting involved in, okay, figuring out the next logic to make it better.
amit choudhary: We're trying to fit a solution to a problem.
amit choudhary: Right? No, we're trying to put a problem to a solution. No.
amit choudhary: Let's define the problem better. And these things, again, somebody has to own it, and suddenly you have to own it, and you have to
amit choudhary: build that… I mean, your… your thinking should be client thinking. It should mirror what client may think. You should anticipate this is what… and that's what you're doing while you are testing, and you're already anticipating that this may crash, which means
amit choudhary: This is, like, high, high, high time that we fix it, otherwise this can't continue.
amit choudhary: And this is a combination of…
amit choudhary: I'm mapping the process, documenting it, finding the loopholes.
amit choudhary: mapping the right… the existing… because unless we have as-is, you cannot build the to-be. As-is process is this, we have 10 different issues, reports are unreliable, refreshes are happening differently, 10 different tools, some copy-paste, lot of X percent manual effort.
amit choudhary: Everybody's time is going, right? When I talked about the Eisenhower matrix, everybody's time is going here, and you are just doing a bunch of steps
amit choudhary: Which you just want to somehow get it done.
amit choudhary: But… Nobody's thinking about it end-to-end, stitching it together, and identifying that it all starts with
amit choudhary: what is the understanding? You, the customer given something.
amit choudhary: So this entire step, it's right from that, those…
amit choudhary: those ontologies sheets which were shared. That's what trace is. It all starts there, with those messy sheets. From those messy sheets, we came up with the mapping. Then from that mapping, we came up with the Mac. Then from the Mac, we came up with the groupings, like SQL or Python or something. That needs to be a proper maintained table.
amit choudhary: Right? Because those changes will not have every time, but when from today's CP, tomorrow something else comes, and it's… again, its SQL definitions could change. So there would be more entries in that… in that one table, that mapping table, where more, tags, different set of tags, might get mapped to SQL.
amit choudhary: So the interpretation of SQL for a CP, which is in product engineering, could be different from the interpretation of SQL,
amit choudhary: in DSS, in MAC4.
amit choudhary: Right? So there's a lot of moving gears here.
amit choudhary: So unless… Each phase or each step of the process is documented.
amit choudhary: And then, then we can think about that, how do we do it, what is the cleanest way, and always it is about… you do not allow data to travel much.
amit choudhary: As less the data, the least… if the data doesn't move from its source, that's the best data.
amit choudhary: As the data starts moving.
amit choudhary: discrepancies, issues, bugs, errors, duplicates, missing values start coming into picture. You don't want to move data.
amit choudhary: Ever. But then you say, okay, I need to migrate. So you move the data, upper right query, move the data out of… into a sheet, then you move the data from here to somewhere, right? And we collectively are evaluating hundreds and hundreds of evaluations we are doing, and we are repeating the same thing. Collectively think about how much of time
amit choudhary: we have spent here, and we have come to a point where we see that there are so many leakage points and so many places, it is leaking. Something leaking at metaverse level, something leaking at sheet level, something leaking at definition level. The calculation itself, we have three versions of calculations.
amit choudhary: So, there are issues.
amit choudhary: But all of them are fixable. 100% fixable, 200% fixable. We can transform this.
amit choudhary: In no time.
amit choudhary: Great thing is that we have AI for help.
amit choudhary: We have captured all the context here.
amit choudhary: Are there… is there more context? Sunil, is there anything else you want to, again, showcase, so that we can at least ensure that we are complete in our coverage?
Sunil Kumar: No, I think these are the two major concerns.
amit choudhary: Excellent, excellent.
amit choudhary: So… As this call ends, Sunil, what I need to do is… you need to do, is that you…
amit choudhary: Get the entire transcript.
amit choudhary: Prepare a good documentation of what's happening.
amit choudhary: the issues, the process, and everything, it should be good, well-readable document.
amit choudhary: And then… interact with Cloud Code and
amit choudhary: Discuss with it the issues, give it these sheets, examples, and everything.
amit choudhary: Mandar and Mansi, please support Sunil here. Sunil, if you want to divide the work somehow, you do it. But first step, which is this capturing of this context and creating this documentation, please do that.
amit choudhary: Ensure that the processes are mapped properly, the steps are mapped, the tools which are involved in that step is mapped.
amit choudhary: Right? The logics are written properly, at what step, what… it's like a flowchart, it's a flowchart. Something is happening, yes or no, some logic is happening, there's logic everywhere. All those things need to be properly written, because once that is written, that becomes a fodder for AI to help us say, okay, now help me automate this.
amit choudhary: It will do it in no time.
amit choudhary: Okay? I had an alternative that, okay, instead of sheets, rely on a database. Databases are designed for a reason.
amit choudhary: If you have defined something as a primary, it will not allow duplicates. We teach all this, right? We have taught all this to, people. Now it's like, time to dog food.
amit choudhary: time for us to demonstrate that, yes, we can build a reliable system. This is an unreliable system. That's the exact pain point, we, we, in our sessions, we talk about that duplicates can creep in, and it comes in. Nobody's stopping us to paste data in the Google spreadsheet 10 times. Nobody's stopping me.
amit choudhary: Correct? Because primary key check is not inbuilt, but if you design it as a database.
amit choudhary: It's very easy to maintain a mapping table. You can run a procedure to map, and with your database being there, you can create a simple front end where you have these forms, right? If still the human has to do something, let's capture it via forms. Read the data, show it there, make an application, internal application.
amit choudhary: Right? Make it efficient. Because if the data is stored, and if there's a bunch of extra information is persisting in that DB, you can play with it, and you can log a lot of things. Mental did something, you log it. Okay, Mental did. And you can trace a lot of things. So, actual system is not just about capturing data, but it's a lot about tracing, auditing.
amit choudhary: Right? Capturing information, reliability, consistency, integrity, everything is at stake right now. No integrity, no reliability, no accuracy.
amit choudhary: Total chaos.
amit choudhary: Perfect use case of disaster. Perfect recipe for disaster, right? And we're close to it, but at the same time, this is a perfect opportunity, and this is a product which we are
amit choudhary: about to build, right? And, the effort has already started, but this will pave the… pave the path for the product. These
amit choudhary: experiences, these are rich experiences, and this has… this holds immense potential to become another line of product, which, ultimately, this entire logic will be part of Inquirius itself, right? There'll be screens and all those things, and we may work with a better logic.
amit choudhary: I'm thinking let's convert a skill. That's it.
amit choudhary: Right? A skill which has a bunch of steps, it will do all those steps, complete it.
amit choudhary: And then, you don't even take the route of sheets. You… if every logic is available, every mapping is available, you don't have to rely on sheets or human memory. Let system take care of it. That's where system thinking, systems thinking, computational thinking.
amit choudhary: comes into place. First principles thinking, you let the system do the job.
amit choudhary: And if you are, not using AI today, it's a crime that we are still relying on this.
amit choudhary: It's a… it's a serious… it's a serious crime, right? So…
amit choudhary: It's an opportunity that we build this, we make this. So, Sunil, please start.
Sunil Kumar: Sure, sir. Yo.
amit choudhary: Let's work at speed. I mean, there's, if somebody asks me what's the deadline, I will say today.
amit choudhary: Right? So, work at speed, come up with iterations quickly. This needs to move faster. This has to go beyond our regular office ends
amit choudhary: At 7, 8 PM, and then I come back tomorrow. If it requires, we have to stretch.
amit choudhary: We have to stretch every day, and in one week, we have to transform this entirely, so that the customer says that, yes, I can start trusting. But at the same time, as I said, communications is equally important, and certainly you have to own it. If this requires a discussion, it requires a discussion. Why? Because it is starting affecting the customer, so customer is equally skin in the game, should be equally skin in the game. Logic should not be, okay, I invented something and giving it.
amit choudhary: I can always give suggestions. This is what we recommend, based on our observation. That is where we are showing our expertise, that yes, we dug into the problem, we did deep dive analysis, we did RCA. This is what came out, this is what we are looking for alignment with you, agreement with you. You align it, you document that also. This is how it aligned.
amit choudhary: And as I said, in AI age, you can capture every piece of context and save it so that it's… in the end, you can always say, as this was agreed earlier, this was the logic which was agreed.
amit choudhary: Right? This worked, and then there were some issues came in. So we are coming again to re-discuss that logic, because earlier logic did not work. These are the examples. Keep those examples ready. Make video clips.
amit choudhary: Collect evidences.
amit choudhary: So that when you go to the customer, you're 100% prepared. That preparation should be top-notch.
amit choudhary: So that one customer gets that, yes, these guys are serious, yes, everybody commits mistake, but these guys are, one, they're owning it up front, owning on your chest.
amit choudhary: And then you're saying that, yes, we analyzed it, these are the possible issues. One, there's no consistent definition itself of this final map which we get, and we have such a critical decision relying on it. We cannot be lenient on that.
amit choudhary: Let that talking…
amit choudhary: be coming from my end. But arming with this, all this information, the next level entire analysis
amit choudhary: Sunil should lead it, but the rest of you should be ably of…
amit choudhary: supporting. This meeting should have had happened
amit choudhary: Long, long time ago. I don't know how… why this is so hard to kind of come together.
amit choudhary: So, you have full right to call people.
amit choudhary: Right?
amit choudhary: message, maybe message arise kar saktavo. You see, Pratik, he simply picks up the phone and call. Because it requires collaboration, and that collaboration has brought us to this insight into… there are so many things
amit choudhary: Going way off.
amit choudhary: Right?
amit choudhary: So…
amit choudhary: let's fix it. We'll be able to do it, but we have to move super fast. We may have to go beyond our regular comfort zone, but this needs fix, otherwise this
amit choudhary: A very heavy, good potential product.
amit choudhary: a solution for this industry will be derailed. I can guarantee you that.
amit choudhary: Right? And let's build it. Let's not leave anything to chance. We can… I can immediately imagine the final product. I can build it today, if you want. But I wanted to use this opportunity to kind of do a real consulting project, and this is a real analytical L&D consulting project. Let's do it.
amit choudhary: Sunil is the lead. Sunil, you have the full liberty. You can call people, and people, please respond.
amit choudhary: Okay? Maybe, unless you're like, something's really, really gone bad, please respond. Take that additional uncomfortable step, and say, no, that's fine.
amit choudhary: We need to solve this, so we need to solve this.
amit choudhary: All of us are together in this one. There's no, okay, Sunil means Sunil. Sunil is just the face. He need able guidance and support.
amit choudhary: Start with Sunil, let's disconnect now, and take this at top priority, put this moving, high velocity, work with Claude, capture context, document everything on GitHub, no sharing on dock here and there.
amit choudhary: They need to be a folder in GitHub where you document everything, and everybody, we version things, and you see how the magic happens. It will…
amit choudhary: It will happen very soon.
amit choudhary: So, let's go with it.
Sunil Kumar: Yeah, so just one thing. Amandar, once we stop the recording, when I will be receiving the script?
amit choudhary: I've already stopped the recording.